,country,description,designation,points,price,province,region_1,region_2,variety,winery
0,US,"Truly stunning, the Lewis Estate Riesling from Dunham explodes with fragrant fruits—citrus, melon and tropical. A symphony of subtle accents, such as powdered sugar, candied citrus peel and breakfast tea, this gorgeous bottle belongs with the short list of the very best of Washington's many Rieslings.",Lewis Estate Vineyard,95,20.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Riesling,Dunham
1,US,"Spectacular is the word that comes to mind here. Tasted over many hours, this stunning effort proved itself over and over. A mix of citrus oils, tree fruits, a hint of honey, tea, lemon verbena and more, it delivers astonishing complexity and flavor for such a young wine. It should continue to evolve and improve from 2024–2034.",Bacchus Vineyard,95,20.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Riesling,Januik
2,US,"With 21% residual sugar, this is an enormously sweet wine, one of the most honeyed of the vintage. A little sugar goes a long way, of course, but this wine also charms with rich, powerful apricot, peach and vanilla custard flavors, perfectly balanced with crisp acidity. With consistently high scores over the years, Tears of Dew has taken a place in the front ranks of California dessert white wines.",Tears of Dew Late Harvest,95,22.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Moscato,EOS
3,US,"This dessert wine has pushed itself to the front of the line of California sweeties, and the '04 is a great bottling. It's enormously sweet in late-harvest character, with apricot liqueur, pineapple tart and vanilla cream flavors that are brightened and boosted with cleansing acidity. So addictively delicious you just can't help yourself.",Tears of Dew Late Harvest,95,22.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Moscato,EOS
4,US,"With 21% residual sugar, this is an enormously sweet wine, one of the most honeyed of the vintage. A little sugar goes a long way, of course, but this wine also charms with rich, powerful apricot, peach and vanilla custard flavors, perfectly balanced with crisp acidity. With consistently high scores over the years, Tears of Dew has taken a place in the front ranks of California dessert white wines.",Tears of Dew Late Harvest,95,22.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Moscato,EOS
5,US,"This dessert wine has pushed itself to the front of the line of California sweeties, and the '04 is a great bottling. It's enormously sweet in late-harvest character, with apricot liqueur, pineapple tart and vanilla cream flavors that are brightened and boosted with cleansing acidity. So addictively delicious you just can't help yourself.",Tears of Dew Late Harvest,95,22.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Moscato,EOS
6,US,"Heitz has made this stellar rosé from the rare Grignolino grape since 1961. Ruby grapefruit-red, it's sultry with strawberry, watermelon, orange zest and salty spice flavor, highlighted with vibrant floral aromas.",Grignolino,95,24.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Rosé,Heitz
7,US,"Among McCrea's Rhône-inspired white wines, this is the most complete and complex. It's rich and dense, with honeycomb, lychee, lemon rind, pineapple and lots of stone—lovely and lingering. It seems to gain strength as it rolls through a sensational finish.",Boushey Vineyard Sirocco Blanc,95,25.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,White Blend,McCrea
8,US,"Massively fruity and oaky, this is an atom bomb of a Chardonnay. You either love this style or you hate it. The pineapple tart, apricot, pear, peach, crème brûlée, buttered toast, vanilla cream and cinnamon spice flavors go on and on. Beyond the utter richness is firm acidity and a bracing minerality. Defines California-style decadence, but drink now, as the wine will quickly go downhill.",Los Alamos Vineyard,95,25.0,California,Santa Barbara County,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
9,US,"Massively fruity and oaky, this is an atom bomb of a Chardonnay. You either love this style or you hate it. The pineapple tart, apricot, pear, peach, crème brûlée, buttered toast, vanilla cream and cinnamon spice flavors go on and on. Beyond the utter richness is firm acidity and a bracing minerality. Defines California-style decadence, but drink now, as the wine will quickly go downhill.",Los Alamos Vineyard,95,25.0,California,Santa Barbara County,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
10,US,"Among McCrea's Rhône-inspired white wines, this is the most complete and complex. It's rich and dense, with honeycomb, lychee, lemon rind, pineapple and lots of stone—lovely and lingering. It seems to gain strength as it rolls through a sensational finish.",Boushey Vineyard Sirocco Blanc,95,25.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,White Blend,McCrea
11,US,"Massively fruity and oaky, this is an atom bomb of a Chardonnay. You either love this style or you hate it. The pineapple tart, apricot, pear, peach, crème brûlée, buttered toast, vanilla cream and cinnamon spice flavors go on and on. Beyond the utter richness is firm acidity and a bracing minerality. Defines California-style decadence, but drink now, as the wine will quickly go downhill.",Los Alamos Vineyard,95,25.0,California,Santa Barbara County,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
12,US,"Beautifully floral, fragrant and evocative, with lush and complex aromas of honeycomb, cracker and citrus, carrying into the mouth with rich, bright, detailed flavors. Stone and mineral elements are woven throughout, and the barrel fermentation adds hints of toast.",Sémillon-Sauvignon-Muscadelle,95,25.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Semillon-Sauvignon Blanc,Buty
13,US,"Beautifully floral, fragrant and evocative, with lush and complex aromas of honeycomb, cracker and citrus, carrying into the mouth with rich, bright, detailed flavors. Stone and mineral elements are woven throughout, and the barrel fermentation adds hints of toast.",Sémillon-Sauvignon-Muscadelle,95,25.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Semillon-Sauvignon Blanc,Buty
14,US,"This marks another stunning vintage for this blend of 55% Sémillon, 25% Muscadelle, 10% Palomino and 10% Colombard, made by Zin master Mike Officer. Pungent in pear and pineapple, it has cutting-edge minerality, a taste of slate, and remains at turns creamy and crisp on the palate. This wine is unusual in all the right ways yet triumphantly delicious.",The Derivative,95,28.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,White Blend,Carlisle
15,US,"Don't drink this beauty too cold with your lobster, crab or scallops. It has the weight of a noble wine, with minerality and creaminess giving shape and texture to the leesy, yeasty flavors of pineapples, Key lime pie and ripe pear purée. Aged in 40% new French oak, California Chardonnay hardly gets any better than this.",Ashley's Vineyard,95,28.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Fess Parker
16,US,"What a roll Fess Parker Winery is on with their '08 Chardonnays. Not only great wine, but priced so well. This wine, sourced from Parker's U Block in this famous Santa Maria Valley vineyard, is as rich as any Chardonnay of the vintage—just massive in pineapple, pear and buttered toast flavors. Yet it's crisp and tart, clean and bracing in its minerality. Only 115 cases produced.",Bien Nacido Vineyard,96,28.0,California,Santa Barbara County,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Fess Parker
17,US,"Don't drink this beauty too cold with your lobster, crab or scallops. It has the weight of a noble wine, with minerality and creaminess giving shape and texture to the leesy, yeasty flavors of pineapples, Key lime pie and ripe pear purée. Aged in 40% new French oak, California Chardonnay hardly gets any better than this.",Ashley's Vineyard,95,28.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Fess Parker
18,US,"Sophisticated winemaking meets gorgeous fruit in this unusual blend: 30% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Syrah, 20% Merlot and 20% Cab Franc. The Syrah's fresh citrus flavors are perfect in the context of the sappy Merlot and harder Cabs, making a wonderful blend that is immediately accessible with sweet, round fruit; then  lingers into a long, textured, lively finish.",Stone River Red Wine,95,28.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Beresan
19,US,"What a roll Fess Parker Winery is on with their '08 Chardonnays. Not only great wine, but priced so well. This wine, sourced from Parker's U Block in this famous Santa Maria Valley vineyard, is as rich as any Chardonnay of the vintage—just massive in pineapple, pear and buttered toast flavors. Yet it's crisp and tart, clean and bracing in its minerality. Only 115 cases produced.",Bien Nacido Vineyard,96,28.0,California,Santa Barbara County,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Fess Parker
20,US,"Don't drink this beauty too cold with your lobster, crab or scallops. It has the weight of a noble wine, with minerality and creaminess giving shape and texture to the leesy, yeasty flavors of pineapples, Key lime pie and ripe pear purée. Aged in 40% new French oak, California Chardonnay hardly gets any better than this.",Ashley's Vineyard,95,28.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Fess Parker
21,US,"What a roll Fess Parker Winery is on with their '08 Chardonnays. Not only great wine, but priced so well. This wine, sourced from Parker's U Block in this famous Santa Maria Valley vineyard, is as rich as any Chardonnay of the vintage—just massive in pineapple, pear and buttered toast flavors. Yet it's crisp and tart, clean and bracing in its minerality. Only 115 cases produced.",Bien Nacido Vineyard,96,28.0,California,Santa Barbara County,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Fess Parker
22,US,"About as rich and flamboyant as California Chardonnay gets, a wine that blows you away with sheer pyrotechnic wizardry. Massive in grilled pineapples, mangoes, Key lime pie, vanilla honey, crème caramel and dusty spices, accented with perfect acidity.",Santa Barbara Historic Vineyards Collection Sanford & Benedict Vineyard,95,30.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
23,US,"Amazingly rich and ripe, defining the Bien Nacido cool-climate style. The grapes hung for a long time in this excellent vintage, getting ripe and balanced, and the wine offers dazzling opulence, while preserving vital acidity. Showcases dessert pastry flavors of pineapples, mangoes, buttered toast, buttercream, meringue and honeysuckle, accented with dusty spices. Simply beautiful from first sniff to the last swallow.",Santa Barbara Historic Vineyards Collection Bien Nacido Vineyard,95,30.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
24,US,"This is as good as the best from California—textural, creamy, a delicious mix of lemon custard, meringue, caramel, papaya and toasted coconut. At one quarter the price of comparable bottles, this young wine just seduces from the instant it hits the tongue.",Lola,96,30.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Chardonnay,Efeste
25,US,"Amazingly rich and ripe, defining the Bien Nacido cool-climate style. The grapes hung for a long time in this excellent vintage, getting ripe and balanced, and the wine offers dazzling opulence, while preserving vital acidity. Showcases dessert pastry flavors of pineapples, mangoes, buttered toast, buttercream, meringue and honeysuckle, accented with dusty spices. Simply beautiful from first sniff to the last swallow.",Santa Barbara Historic Vineyards Collection Bien Nacido Vineyard,95,30.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
26,US,"About as rich and flamboyant as California Chardonnay gets, a wine that blows you away with sheer pyrotechnic wizardry. Massive in grilled pineapples, mangoes, Key lime pie, vanilla honey, crème caramel and dusty spices, accented with perfect acidity.",Santa Barbara Historic Vineyards Collection Sanford & Benedict Vineyard,95,30.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
27,US,"Amazingly rich and ripe, defining the Bien Nacido cool-climate style. The grapes hung for a long time in this excellent vintage, getting ripe and balanced, and the wine offers dazzling opulence, while preserving vital acidity. Showcases dessert pastry flavors of pineapples, mangoes, buttered toast, buttercream, meringue and honeysuckle, accented with dusty spices. Simply beautiful from first sniff to the last swallow.",Santa Barbara Historic Vineyards Collection Bien Nacido Vineyard,95,30.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
28,US,"About as rich and flamboyant as California Chardonnay gets, a wine that blows you away with sheer pyrotechnic wizardry. Massive in grilled pineapples, mangoes, Key lime pie, vanilla honey, crème caramel and dusty spices, accented with perfect acidity.",Santa Barbara Historic Vineyards Collection Sanford & Benedict Vineyard,95,30.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
29,US,"This is De Loach's finest Zinfandel of their five new releases. In fact, it's their best Zinfandel ever, and one that defines Sonoma County cool-climate Zinfandel. It's brilliant in balance and structure, with beautifully sculpted tannins and fine acidity, and just the right touch of oak. Within that package are savory flavors of wild blackberries, picked at their peak under the summer sun. So easy to drink, yet so complex.",O.F.S.,95,30.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,De Loach
30,US,"This is De Loach's finest Zinfandel of their five new releases. In fact, it's their best Zinfandel ever, and one that defines Sonoma County cool-climate Zinfandel. It's brilliant in balance and structure, with beautifully sculpted tannins and fine acidity, and just the right touch of oak. Within that package are savory flavors of wild blackberries, picked at their peak under the summer sun. So easy to drink, yet so complex.",O.F.S.,95,30.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,De Loach
31,US,"This is De Loach's finest Zinfandel of their five new releases. In fact, it's their best Zinfandel ever, and one that defines Sonoma County cool-climate Zinfandel. It's brilliant in balance and structure, with beautifully sculpted tannins and fine acidity, and just the right touch of oak. Within that package are savory flavors of wild blackberries, picked at their peak under the summer sun. So easy to drink, yet so complex.",O.F.S.,95,30.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,De Loach
32,US,"Guaranteed to please the most discriminating Chardonnay fans for its dry crispness, great structure and endless opulence. Massively complex, offering waves of grilled pineapple, pear, buttered toast and smoky vanilla. The grapes came mainly from Bien Nacido Vineyard, with the balance from Sierra Madre. Only 338 cases produced.",Reserve,96,32.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Rusack
33,US,"Guaranteed to please the most discriminating Chardonnay fans for its dry crispness, great structure and endless opulence. Massively complex, offering waves of grilled pineapple, pear, buttered toast and smoky vanilla. The grapes came mainly from Bien Nacido Vineyard, with the balance from Sierra Madre. Only 338 cases produced.",Reserve,96,32.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Rusack
34,US,"Here's more proof that sometimes a winery's least expensive bottling can be its best. The wine is first class, from the translucent ruby color to the power and delicacy of the mouthfeel. There's something haunting and distinctly Fort Ross-ian in the wild cherry, mushroom and pine flavors that seem to echo the fog, sun and redwood forests of this remote region. Really delicious now and through 2018 or so.",Fort Ross Vineyard Sea Slopes,95,32.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Fort Ross
35,US,"Made from grapes sourced from a biodynamically farmed vineyard, this wine puts on an almost-magical display of flower and citrus scents. Deep and concentrated, this has harmonious and potent flavors, and it is amazing how the delicate floral aspect cuts across the juicy, citrusy taste.",Wallula Vineyard Biodynamic,95,32.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Riesling,Pacific Rim
36,US,"Guaranteed to please the most discriminating Chardonnay fans for its dry crispness, great structure and endless opulence. Massively complex, offering waves of grilled pineapple, pear, buttered toast and smoky vanilla. The grapes came mainly from Bien Nacido Vineyard, with the balance from Sierra Madre. Only 338 cases produced.",Reserve,96,32.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Rusack
37,US,"Made from grapes sourced from a biodynamically farmed vineyard, this wine puts on an almost-magical display of flower and citrus scents. Deep and concentrated, this has harmonious and potent flavors, and it is amazing how the delicate floral aspect cuts across the juicy, citrusy taste.",Wallula Vineyard Biodynamic,95,32.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Riesling,Pacific Rim
38,US,"Here's more proof that sometimes a winery's least expensive bottling can be its best. The wine is first class, from the translucent ruby color to the power and delicacy of the mouthfeel. There's something haunting and distinctly Fort Ross-ian in the wild cherry, mushroom and pine flavors that seem to echo the fog, sun and redwood forests of this remote region. Really delicious now and through 2018 or so.",Fort Ross Vineyard Sea Slopes,95,32.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Fort Ross
39,US,"This is great Zinfandel. The vineyard was planted in 1915 and probably contains other varieties than Zinfandel. Yields are extraordinarily low, as they are in these coastal ancient vineyards. The wine's concentration is impressive, spanning ripe, crushed raspberries through cherry pie filling to black currants, with all sorts of earthy, minerally, balsam and cedar complexities, not to mention the masses of spice. Has the balance of a fine Cabernet Sauvignon, with smooth tannins and fine acidity. Zinfandel hardly gets any better than this.",Crow Ridge Vineyard,95,33.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,V. Sattui
40,US,"This is great Zinfandel. The vineyard was planted in 1915 and probably contains other varieties than Zinfandel. Yields are extraordinarily low, as they are in these coastal ancient vineyards. The wine's concentration is impressive, spanning ripe, crushed raspberries through cherry pie filling to black currants, with all sorts of earthy, minerally, balsam and cedar complexities, not to mention the masses of spice. Has the balance of a fine Cabernet Sauvignon, with smooth tannins and fine acidity. Zinfandel hardly gets any better than this.",Crow Ridge Vineyard,95,33.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,V. Sattui
41,US,"This is great Zinfandel. The vineyard was planted in 1915 and probably contains other varieties than Zinfandel. Yields are extraordinarily low, as they are in these coastal ancient vineyards. The wine's concentration is impressive, spanning ripe, crushed raspberries through cherry pie filling to black currants, with all sorts of earthy, minerally, balsam and cedar complexities, not to mention the masses of spice. Has the balance of a fine Cabernet Sauvignon, with smooth tannins and fine acidity. Zinfandel hardly gets any better than this.",Crow Ridge Vineyard,95,33.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,V. Sattui
42,US,"The vineyard is on winding, picturesque West Dry Creek Road, and is comprised of very old vines. In the wrong hands these low-yielding grapes might have been mishandled, but Dry Creek Vineyard knows Zinfandel. The result is superb, spectacular, the essence of old vine Sonoma. Rich, dry and pure, it's enormously complex in briary, peppery wild berries, with a delicious edge of sweet raisins. Drink now for sheer deliciousness.",Beeson Ranch,95,34.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Dry Creek Vineyard
43,US,"The vineyard is on winding, picturesque West Dry Creek Road, and is comprised of very old vines. In the wrong hands these low-yielding grapes might have been mishandled, but Dry Creek Vineyard knows Zinfandel. The result is superb, spectacular, the essence of old vine Sonoma. Rich, dry and pure, it's enormously complex in briary, peppery wild berries, with a delicious edge of sweet raisins. Drink now for sheer deliciousness.",Beeson Ranch,95,34.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Dry Creek Vineyard
44,US,"The vineyard is on winding, picturesque West Dry Creek Road, and is comprised of very old vines. In the wrong hands these low-yielding grapes might have been mishandled, but Dry Creek Vineyard knows Zinfandel. The result is superb, spectacular, the essence of old vine Sonoma. Rich, dry and pure, it's enormously complex in briary, peppery wild berries, with a delicious edge of sweet raisins. Drink now for sheer deliciousness.",Beeson Ranch,95,34.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Dry Creek Vineyard
45,US,"A gorgeous dessert wine. Supersweet in honey, apricot jam, orange blossom, crème brûlée and vanilla flavors, it's balanced with rich acidity, and finishes with a spicy touch of smoke. Compelling and addictive, this is one of the best sweet wines of the year.",Late Harvest,95,35.0,California,Sonoma Valley,Sonoma,Sémillon,Longboard
46,US,"Here is an utterly irresistible wine—spicy, sensuous and layered with beautifully ripened citrus, tree and tropical fruits. A whiff of pine needle continues as a flavor thread, along with vanilla, buttered nuts, lemongrass and macaroon. This wine just keeps on going.",Shea Vineyard,95,35.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Shea
47,US,"I liked Morgan's Double L Chard for its Chablis-like character. This wine is more so. It's drier, more acidic and more elegant, but there's nothing lean about the power of its core of tropical fruit, which detonates on the palate and doesn't stop. There's fascination with every sip, as the wine slowly changes in the glass. This is a great wine and showcases the infinite possibilities of this appellation.",Rosella's Vineyard,95,35.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Morgan
48,US,"A fabulous white Rhone blend of enormous complexity and charm. Fills the mouth with butterscotch, creme brulee, pineapple, stony mineral, vanilla, impossibly ripe white peach and creamy hazelnut flavors, and as sweet as that sounds, the wine is dry and crisp. The greatest Esprit Blanc ever. Roussanne, Grenache Blanc and Viognier.",Esprit de Beaucastel Blanc,95,35.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,White Blend,Tablas Creek
49,US,"Really just about the perfect Anderson Valley Pinot in terms of the beautifully crisp acidity, and the way the wine blasts pure flavors of red cherries, cassis and raspberries across the palate. With 30% new French oak, this opulence is made more exotic with notes of caramel, butterscotch, vanilla and toast. Combines all this massive power with elegant finesse in an effortless way.",Fog-Eater,95,35.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Drew
50,US,"Chardonnay doesn't get much better than this. Bursts with grilled pineapple-infused crème brûlée, peach pie, butter-sautéed banana, passion fruit and butterscotch flavors, dusted with cinnamon and brown sugar. Yet all that opulence is balanced by perfect acidity. Totally gorgeous.",Santa Barbara Historic Vineyards Collection Bien Nacido Vineyard,96,35.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Au Bon Climat
51,US,"As excellent as this was was in 2009, the 2010 has reached an almost-ethereal level. The aromatics alone are transportive, with the concentrated essence of raspberries and blueberries at optimal ripeness. The flavors are deep and long, elegant and powerful, and they lead into a finish that's anchored in notes of mineral and dark chocolate.",Boushey Vineyard Le Midi,95,35.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,Grenache,Maison Bleue
52,US,"As excellent as this was was in 2009, the 2010 has reached an almost-ethereal level. The aromatics alone are transportive, with the concentrated essence of raspberries and blueberries at optimal ripeness. The flavors are deep and long, elegant and powerful, and they lead into a finish that's anchored in notes of mineral and dark chocolate.",Boushey Vineyard Le Midi,95,35.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,Grenache,Maison Bleue
53,US,"I liked Morgan's Double L Chard for its Chablis-like character. This wine is more so. It's drier, more acidic and more elegant, but there's nothing lean about the power of its core of tropical fruit, which detonates on the palate and doesn't stop. There's fascination with every sip, as the wine slowly changes in the glass. This is a great wine and showcases the infinite possibilities of this appellation.",Rosella's Vineyard,95,35.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Morgan
54,US,"I liked Morgan's Double L Chard for its Chablis-like character. This wine is more so. It's drier, more acidic and more elegant, but there's nothing lean about the power of its core of tropical fruit, which detonates on the palate and doesn't stop. There's fascination with every sip, as the wine slowly changes in the glass. This is a great wine and showcases the infinite possibilities of this appellation.",Rosella's Vineyard,95,35.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Morgan
55,US,"From the first sniff you are captivated—this incorporates all the many scents and flavors of great Washington Syrah. Start with earth, seaweed, compost; bring in ripe berry fruit, vanilla, tobacco. That is the nose. In the mouth you get perfect fruit—bright, tangy, a mix of berries and cherries and cassis—highlighted with sharp, defining acidity and polished tannins. Young and assertive, this needs more bottle age to show its best.",Silo Syrah Reserve,95,35.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Rulo
56,US,"From the first sniff you are captivated—this incorporates all the many scents and flavors of great Washington Syrah. Start with earth, seaweed, compost; bring in ripe berry fruit, vanilla, tobacco. That is the nose. In the mouth you get perfect fruit—bright, tangy, a mix of berries and cherries and cassis—highlighted with sharp, defining acidity and polished tannins. Young and assertive, this needs more bottle age to show its best.",Silo Syrah Reserve,95,35.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Rulo
57,US,"From the first sniff you are captivated—this incorporates all the many scents and flavors of great Washington Syrah. Start with earth, seaweed, compost; bring in ripe berry fruit, vanilla, tobacco. That is the nose. In the mouth you get perfect fruit—bright, tangy, a mix of berries and cherries and cassis—highlighted with sharp, defining acidity and polished tannins. Young and assertive, this needs more bottle age to show its best.",Silo Syrah Reserve,95,35.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Rulo
58,US,"A gorgeous dessert wine. Supersweet in honey, apricot jam, orange blossom, crème brûlée and vanilla flavors, it's balanced with rich acidity, and finishes with a spicy touch of smoke. Compelling and addictive, this is one of the best sweet wines of the year.",Late Harvest,95,35.0,California,Sonoma Valley,Sonoma,Sémillon,Longboard
59,US,"Always one of the best Sauvignon Blancs in California, the '05 is a stunner. It brings new levels of richness and complexity to a variety that can be simple even in the best of hands. With 15% Sémillon, the wine explodes with zesty tangerine, lemon tart, coconut pie and smoky oak flavors, with an  edge of wintergreen. The finish is absolutely dry. A triumph.",To Kalon Vineyard Reserve,95,35.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Fumé Blanc,Robert Mondavi
60,US,"Consistent year after year, this blend of 67% Sauvignon Blanc and 33% Sémillon is modeled after top-flight white Bordeaux. Deep gold, toasty and scented with olive oil, walnuts and loam, it hits the palate full-on with a rainbow of flavors: citrus, stone and tropical fruits, all accented with toast, oil and nuts from barrel aging. Riveting, delicious  and unique.",Chaleur Estate Blanc,95,36.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style White Blend,DeLille
61,US,"You don't think of Signorello as a Syrah house, but for years, they've been putting out serious Syrahs, and with the '05 vintage, they certify this tradition. This wine is, in a word, fabulous. It's enormously attractive in well-oaked cassis, plum, leather, cocoa and white pepper aromas and flavors, but that only begins to describe the complexity. The 4% Viognier seems responsible for the bright intrusion of citrusy acidity. As powerful as it is, the wine never loses sight of balance and elegance.",Estate,95,36.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Syrah,Signorello
62,US,"An impressive Zinfandel, notable for its complexity and charm. Exudes quintessential Zin character, with a mouthburst of red currants, black raspberry pie filling, wild cherries, sweet charred oak and masses of freshly crushed black pepper. There's even a chocolaty richness in the finish. Production of 921 cases is decent in the old-vine Zin category.",Old Vine Estate,95,36.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Zichichi Family Vineyard
63,US,"An impressive Zinfandel, notable for its complexity and charm. Exudes quintessential Zin character, with a mouthburst of red currants, black raspberry pie filling, wild cherries, sweet charred oak and masses of freshly crushed black pepper. There's even a chocolaty richness in the finish. Production of 921 cases is decent in the old-vine Zin category.",Old Vine Estate,95,36.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Zichichi Family Vineyard
64,US,"An impressive Zinfandel, notable for its complexity and charm. Exudes quintessential Zin character, with a mouthburst of red currants, black raspberry pie filling, wild cherries, sweet charred oak and masses of freshly crushed black pepper. There's even a chocolaty richness in the finish. Production of 921 cases is decent in the old-vine Zin category.",Old Vine Estate,95,36.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Zichichi Family Vineyard
65,US,"What a beautiful Pinot Noir for drinking now with lamb chops or maybe a rich, exotic Ahi tuna tartare. Brilliantly crisp in acidity, with a clean, bracing mouthfeel, it offers dazzlingly rich flavors of raspberries, cherries, orange zest, Dr. Pepper cola and Asian spices, with smoky oak adding elaborate tiers of vanilla char. For the price, it's a very great buy.",Fort Ross Vineyard,95,37.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Fort Ross
66,US,"What a beautiful Pinot Noir for drinking now with lamb chops or maybe a rich, exotic Ahi tuna tartare. Brilliantly crisp in acidity, with a clean, bracing mouthfeel, it offers dazzlingly rich flavors of raspberries, cherries, orange zest, Dr. Pepper cola and Asian spices, with smoky oak adding elaborate tiers of vanilla char. For the price, it's a very great buy.",Fort Ross Vineyard,95,37.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Fort Ross
67,US,"What a beautiful Pinot Noir for drinking now with lamb chops or maybe a rich, exotic Ahi tuna tartare. Brilliantly crisp in acidity, with a clean, bracing mouthfeel, it offers dazzlingly rich flavors of raspberries, cherries, orange zest, Dr. Pepper cola and Asian spices, with smoky oak adding elaborate tiers of vanilla char. For the price, it's a very great buy.",Fort Ross Vineyard,95,37.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Fort Ross
68,US,"Massively rich, with pronounced, sweet, smoky oak flavors and a rich vein of tart, creamy lees highlighting the underlying fruity ripeness. Shows flavors of grilled pineapples, tropical mangoes and pears, balanced with crisp acids. Tremendously delicious and compelling.",Talley Rincon,95,38.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Tantara
69,US,"Huge, rich, white Burgundy style Chardonnay. Has a pie-filling fruity richness of pineapples, lemondrop, pears, kiwi fruit and exotic kumquats, balanced with fine, minerally acidity, and wrapped into a buttercream texture. The oak is flamboyant, but perfectly in keeping with the wine's volume. Dazzling and dramatic, from a vineyard that just keeps performing better and better.",Clos Pepe Vineyard,96,38.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Ojai
70,US,"Massively rich, with pronounced, sweet, smoky oak flavors and a rich vein of tart, creamy lees highlighting the underlying fruity ripeness. Shows flavors of grilled pineapples, tropical mangoes and pears, balanced with crisp acids. Tremendously delicious and compelling.",Talley Rincon,95,38.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Tantara
71,US,"Huge, rich, white Burgundy style Chardonnay. Has a pie-filling fruity richness of pineapples, lemondrop, pears, kiwi fruit and exotic kumquats, balanced with fine, minerally acidity, and wrapped into a buttercream texture. The oak is flamboyant, but perfectly in keeping with the wine's volume. Dazzling and dramatic, from a vineyard that just keeps performing better and better.",Clos Pepe Vineyard,96,38.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Ojai
72,US,"Huge, rich, white Burgundy style Chardonnay. Has a pie-filling fruity richness of pineapples, lemondrop, pears, kiwi fruit and exotic kumquats, balanced with fine, minerally acidity, and wrapped into a buttercream texture. The oak is flamboyant, but perfectly in keeping with the wine's volume. Dazzling and dramatic, from a vineyard that just keeps performing better and better.",Clos Pepe Vineyard,96,38.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Ojai
73,US,"A top-notch vintage for this bottling, it's a blend of 39% Merlot (from the original 1976 block), 35% Cabernet Sauvignon, 15% Petit Verdot and 11% Cabernet Franc. Roses, blackberries, cassis and baking spices are beautifully rendered in a wine rich in depth and detail. More bottle age will surely bring greater complexity and soften the astringent tannins.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard Red Wine,95,38.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Seven Hills
74,US,"Massively rich, with pronounced, sweet, smoky oak flavors and a rich vein of tart, creamy lees highlighting the underlying fruity ripeness. Shows flavors of grilled pineapples, tropical mangoes and pears, balanced with crisp acids. Tremendously delicious and compelling.",Talley Rincon,95,38.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Tantara
75,US,"A joy to drink. It's so ripely exuberant in fruit, explosive in wild berry, dried red currant, licorice, cocoa and dusty spice flavors that sink deep into the palate and last forever on the finish. Yet it's dry, and the structure is entirely elegant. The two vineyards that are source to this wine are old and dry-farmed. A very great Dry Creek Valley Zinfandel, a real classic. Drink now–2015.",Cortina,95,38.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Seghesio
76,US,"The mountain vineyard somehow manages not only to beautifully ripen the grapes to a great expression of fruit, but also preserves vital acidity and lends a firm layer of minerality. The result is a big, powerful wine that easily absorbs its lavish coat of new oak. The flavors are of candied pineapple tart, Meyer lemon mousse and vanilla custard, with a finish of sweet, crushed Asian spices. Perfect now, and just beginning to gather momentum. Drink through 2011, at least, with proper cellaring.",Estate Bottled,95,38.0,California,Santa Cruz Mountains,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Mount Eden
77,US,"This is a spicy take on Cabernet, with some of the pepper and smoked meat character of Syrah coming through, despite the fairly small amount in the blend. The concentration of cassis and black cherry fruit is astonishing, matched with ripe tannins that hint at black olive. Despite the somewhat heavier oak influence, it is the fruit that stands front and center.",RiverBend Vineyard,95,38.0,Washington,Wahluke Slope,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Fielding Hills
78,US,"Even by past standards, this new vintage of Sineann's Old Vine Zin is spectacular, with ripe, jammy, concentrated fruit flavors of fig, black cherry and purple plum. The balance among the fruit, acidity, tannin and alcohol is spot-on, without blowing away the more subtle compexity of the old vine fruit.",Old Vine,95,39.0,Oregon,Columbia Gorge (OR),Oregon Other,Zinfandel,Sineann
79,US,"Absolutely stunning, a testament to the vintage, the terroir and to the winemaker's impeccable hand. It's delicious beyond description, offering wave after wave of cherry pie, blackberry confit, red currant, persimmon and cola flavors, finished with exciting spices. Already throwing sediment, it's so balanced in acids and tannins that it's gorgeous now, but should develop effortlessly over the next six years at the very least.",La Masía Don Miguel Vineyard,96,39.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Marimar Estate
80,US,"How they manage to make dessert pastry flavors taste dry is a mystery. Whatever the answer is, this utterly delicious wine erupts with pineapple tart, date nut cookie, vanilla-covered orange and spicy mocha latté flavors, yet has no trace of residual sugar. Brilliant acidity makes it all clean and alive.",Brosseau Vineyard,95,39.0,California,Chalone,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Testarossa
81,US,"A gorgeous Chardonnay, flamboyant in tropical fruit, honey, cream and buttered toast, but so balanced in acids and minerals, so clean and pure, that it ventures into truly classic territory. The vineyard long has been a special one for Talley. Now, Testarossa gets to dip in, with fantastic results. One of the best Chardonnays Testarossa has ever produced.",Rincon Vineyard,95,39.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Testarossa
82,US,"Testarossa's 2007 Chardonnays are out, and this La Cruz is right up there with the best of them. Rich in citrusy acids, it dazzles the palate with Mandarin orange, pineapple-infused crème brûlée, mineral, buttered toast and cinnamon spice flavors. Drink this decadent wine soon.",La Cruz Vineyard,95,39.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Testarossa
83,US,"Expensive, but brilliant. At the forefront of California Sauvignon Blanc. Shows bright and clean acidity framing intense tangerine, lime and honey flavors, as well as complications from oak. Yet it finishes bone dry and elegant. Delicious and compelling, this wine lifts Sauvignon Blanc into entirely new territory.",Musque,95,40.0,California,Chalk Hill,Sonoma,Sauvignon Blanc,Chalk Hill
84,US,"Even after a big dinner, there's room for this amazingly rich dessert wine. With residual sugar of 15.3%, it's extremely sweet, but vibrant acidity gives it nerve and zest. Shocks the palate with massive flavors of apricot essence, peaches, crème brûlée, honey and vanilla bean. Tantalizing and exotic.",Vista Verde Vineyard Late Harvest,95,40.0,California,San Benito County,Central Coast,Gewürztraminer,Williams Selyem
85,US,"This Cabernet-Merlot blend is packed with blackberry and crème de cassis, with a firm minerality. With the weight of the middle palate and the long, spicy finish, it's especially attractive, although it's also quite tannic. The only difference between this Estate Monte Bello Cabernet and Ridge's Monte Bello Estate Cabernet ($150; note the difference in the placement of ""estate"") is that the winemaker selected lots from the vineyard that were considered more accessible, which in this case means more luscious. Despite its many charms, the wine should age for a long time.",Estate Monte Bello Vineyard,95,40.0,California,Santa Cruz Mountains,Central Coast,Cabernet Sauvignon,Ridge
86,US,"It's hard to consistently get scores this high year after year, but Greg Bjornstad does, because he understands Pinot Noir. Specifically, he knows how to combine power, which is easy, with finesse, which isn't. This 2007, from an esteemed vineyard, is spectacular in wild forest cherry, cola, licorice, pine cone, anise, exotic spice and sandalwood flavors, even as it's perfectly balanced with crisp acidity, fine tannins and just-right oak. Lovely and complex. Now–2014.",van der Kamp Vineyard,96,40.0,California,Sonoma Mountain,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Bjornstad
87,US,"Wow, this is a glorious bottle of Pinot Noir. It was designed to celebrate the winery's 10th vintage (hence the name, Dix) and is a barrel selection of Maresh Vineyard grapes. Textural, lush, smooth, supple and utterly delicious, its red and black fruits are dappled with dusty spices, dusted with coffee grounds, and glide into a silky finish. Yummy beyond words.",Dix,96,40.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Scott Paul
88,US,"Even after a big dinner, there's room for this amazingly rich dessert wine. With residual sugar of 15.3%, it's extremely sweet, but vibrant acidity gives it nerve and zest. Shocks the palate with massive flavors of apricot essence, peaches, crème brûlée, honey and vanilla bean. Tantalizing and exotic.",Vista Verde Vineyard Late Harvest,95,40.0,California,San Benito County,Central Coast,Gewürztraminer,Williams Selyem
89,US,"Certainly the finest Champoux vineyard Cabernet Franc yet from Sineann, this immense, concentrated wine blends a riot of dark fruits with baking spices, ground coffee, tobacco and caramel. Great concentration and depth, but drinking it now is robbing the cradle.",Champoux Vineyard,95,40.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Franc,Sineann
90,US,"A terrific Pinot Noir that's so delicious, you can't stop drinking it, and also shows a wonderful, classic coastal complexity. With tangy acidity and ultrarefined tannins, it gives the essence of wild raspberries and cherries. There's a feral quality to the fruit; you can detect notes of mountain eucalyptus, fennel and lavender. Oak adds the perfect touch of smoke. Just lovely, now and through 2014.",Pearlessence,95,40.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Failla
91,US,"Expensive, but brilliant. At the forefront of California Sauvignon Blanc. Shows bright and clean acidity framing intense tangerine, lime and honey flavors, as well as complications from oak. Yet it finishes bone dry and elegant. Delicious and compelling, this wine lifts Sauvignon Blanc into entirely new territory.",Musque,95,40.0,California,Chalk Hill,Sonoma,Sauvignon Blanc,Chalk Hill
92,US,"The winery's philosophy is, if you're going to make a dessert wine, why not make it fabulously sweet instead of boringly off-dry? With 17.5% residual sugar, this indeed hits the limit of the sweetness scale. Yet it's superbly balanced with acidity, giving a refreshing balance to the intense apricot jam, lemon drop, candied ginger, pineapple crème brûlée and vanilla custard flavors. A tremendous success for a California dessert wine.",Late Harvest,96,40.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Muscat,Williams Selyem
93,US,"Expensive, but brilliant. At the forefront of California Sauvignon Blanc. Shows bright and clean acidity framing intense tangerine, lime and honey flavors, as well as complications from oak. Yet it finishes bone dry and elegant. Delicious and compelling, this wine lifts Sauvignon Blanc into entirely new territory.",Musque,95,40.0,California,Chalk Hill,Sonoma,Sauvignon Blanc,Chalk Hill
94,US,"A terrific Pinot Noir that's so delicious, you can't stop drinking it, and also shows a wonderful, classic coastal complexity. With tangy acidity and ultrarefined tannins, it gives the essence of wild raspberries and cherries. There's a feral quality to the fruit; you can detect notes of mountain eucalyptus, fennel and lavender. Oak adds the perfect touch of smoke. Just lovely, now and through 2014.",Pearlessence,95,40.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Failla
95,US,"It's hard to consistently get scores this high year after year, but Greg Bjornstad does, because he understands Pinot Noir. Specifically, he knows how to combine power, which is easy, with finesse, which isn't. This 2007, from an esteemed vineyard, is spectacular in wild forest cherry, cola, licorice, pine cone, anise, exotic spice and sandalwood flavors, even as it's perfectly balanced with crisp acidity, fine tannins and just-right oak. Lovely and complex. Now–2014.",van der Kamp Vineyard,96,40.0,California,Sonoma Mountain,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Bjornstad
96,US,"Certainly the finest Champoux vineyard Cabernet Franc yet from Sineann, this immense, concentrated wine blends a riot of dark fruits with baking spices, ground coffee, tobacco and caramel. Great concentration and depth, but drinking it now is robbing the cradle.",Champoux Vineyard,95,40.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Franc,Sineann
97,US,"Defines Tchelistcheff's iron-fist-in-a-velvet-glove description of Stags Leap District Cabernets. Seductively soft, a wine that caresses the palate with gentle tannins and sweet, creamy oak, framing ripe blackcurrant fruit and rich spice. The power is in the focus, brilliance and overall purity.",Napa Valley,95,40.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stags' Leap Winery
98,US,"MacRostie's Pinots from this vineyard on the edge of the Sonoma side of Carneros always are big, ripe, powerful and ageable. This '07 shows the fat, ripe character of the vintage, offering luscious raspberry, cherry, cola, red currant liqueur, bacon, anise, spice and sandalwood flavors. But it's balanced enough to change in interesting ways over the next 5–7 years. Really a glamorous wine for your best meals.",Wildcat Mountain Vineyard,95,40.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,MacRostie
99,US,"There's a wildland, coastal mountain taste to this wine, which brims with bone-dry, exotic, woodsy tastes of wild forest cherries, fennel, balsam, cola, volcanic minerals, raw beef and Asian spices, not to mention the sweet veneer of sandalwood. It's utterly distinct from other Pinots in its almost feral complexity, a wine that changes with every sniff and sip. Should develop through 2014. This is a great price for a Pinot Noir of this integrity and interest. Only 152 cases were produced, but it's worth the search.",Hellenthal Vineyard,96,40.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Bjornstad
100,US,"Built for aging, this tightly wound, elegant and yet grand wine is sure to develop more nuances and smoothness with time. It smells enticingly like cedar, tobacco and dark chocolate-covered blueberries, yet retains a firmness and reserve that doesn't let those melt into richness on the palate quite yet. Store this confidently in a cool place and enjoy it 2020–2025.",Sentinel Oak Vineyard Pyramid Block,95,40.0,California,Shenandoah Valley (CA),Sierra Foothills,Syrah,Terre Rouge
101,US,"The 2005 Clos de Betz explodes from the glass with profound scents of pipe tobacco, violets, cherries and clove. Immediately supple and silky, this delicious blend of 56% Merlot, 19% Cabernet Sauvignon, 16% Malbec and 9% Cabernet Franc offers more complexity than any Clos de Betz to date. Silky, tightly packed fruit flavors are seamlessly blended, with berries, currants and cherries galore. The tannins have been buffed to a fine lustre.",Clos de Betz Red Wine,95,40.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Betz Family
102,US,"Even after a big dinner, there's room for this amazingly rich dessert wine. With residual sugar of 15.3%, it's extremely sweet, but vibrant acidity gives it nerve and zest. Shocks the palate with massive flavors of apricot essence, peaches, crème brûlée, honey and vanilla bean. Tantalizing and exotic.",Vista Verde Vineyard Late Harvest,95,40.0,California,San Benito County,Central Coast,Gewürztraminer,Williams Selyem
103,US,"Shows a dramatic interpretation of Dry Creek terroir, with intense wild berry, mocha and spice flavors that are so ripe, they veer into currants and grilled blackberries. Entirely dry, the wine is marked by rich, complex tannins. Superb, a great wine, as good as Zinfandel gets. Drink now through 2012.",Bradford Mountain Vineyards,95,40.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Gary Farrell
104,US,"Certainly the finest Champoux vineyard Cabernet Franc yet from Sineann, this immense, concentrated wine blends a riot of dark fruits with baking spices, ground coffee, tobacco and caramel. Great concentration and depth, but drinking it now is robbing the cradle.",Champoux Vineyard,95,40.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Franc,Sineann
105,US,"This is possibly the most savory rendition of Syrah made on the Central Coast, each vintage as feral as the last. This bottling shows bloody lamb, crushed peppercorn, soy and barnyard elements on the nose. The palate is tense with tarry structure, revealing unusual kelp, stewed peppercorn, black miso and teriyaki flavors.",Estate,96,40.0,California,San Luis Obispo County,Central Coast,Syrah,Stolo
106,US,"MacRostie's Pinots from this vineyard on the edge of the Sonoma side of Carneros always are big, ripe, powerful and ageable. This '07 shows the fat, ripe character of the vintage, offering luscious raspberry, cherry, cola, red currant liqueur, bacon, anise, spice and sandalwood flavors. But it's balanced enough to change in interesting ways over the next 5–7 years. Really a glamorous wine for your best meals.",Wildcat Mountain Vineyard,95,40.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,MacRostie
107,US,"There's a wildland, coastal mountain taste to this wine, which brims with bone-dry, exotic, woodsy tastes of wild forest cherries, fennel, balsam, cola, volcanic minerals, raw beef and Asian spices, not to mention the sweet veneer of sandalwood. It's utterly distinct from other Pinots in its almost feral complexity, a wine that changes with every sniff and sip. Should develop through 2014. This is a great price for a Pinot Noir of this integrity and interest. Only 152 cases were produced, but it's worth the search.",Hellenthal Vineyard,96,40.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Bjornstad
108,US,"This boasts a brilliant, linear progression from pepper to lush cherry and berry fruit. It's spicy and floral in nuanced, beautiful ways, with perfectly balanced acidity. Creamy and silky, this wine lingers, building complexity as it coats the palate.",Perli Vineyards,95,40.0,California,Mendocino Ridge,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Syrah,Donkey & Goat
109,US,"MacRostie's Pinots from this vineyard on the edge of the Sonoma side of Carneros always are big, ripe, powerful and ageable. This '07 shows the fat, ripe character of the vintage, offering luscious raspberry, cherry, cola, red currant liqueur, bacon, anise, spice and sandalwood flavors. But it's balanced enough to change in interesting ways over the next 5–7 years. Really a glamorous wine for your best meals.",Wildcat Mountain Vineyard,95,40.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,MacRostie
110,US,"The winery's philosophy is, if you're going to make a dessert wine, why not make it fabulously sweet instead of boringly off-dry? With 17.5% residual sugar, this indeed hits the limit of the sweetness scale. Yet it's superbly balanced with acidity, giving a refreshing balance to the intense apricot jam, lemon drop, candied ginger, pineapple crème brûlée and vanilla custard flavors. A tremendous success for a California dessert wine.",Late Harvest,96,40.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Muscat,Williams Selyem
111,US,"A terrific Pinot Noir that's so delicious, you can't stop drinking it, and also shows a wonderful, classic coastal complexity. With tangy acidity and ultrarefined tannins, it gives the essence of wild raspberries and cherries. There's a feral quality to the fruit; you can detect notes of mountain eucalyptus, fennel and lavender. Oak adds the perfect touch of smoke. Just lovely, now and through 2014.",Pearlessence,95,40.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Failla
112,US,"Stunning and dramatic, reminiscent of a fine Burgundy. Hugely complex flavors of grilled tropical fruits, minerals, peaches and pears, elaborated with waves of smoky, honey-sweet oak and dusty spices. For all the richness, it's completely dry. A blend made from two of the greatest vineyards in the Russian River Valley.",Rochioli - Allen Vineyards,96,41.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Gary Farrell
113,US,"Voluptuous, lush, a wine of great power. Packed with cedar-inspired flavors of blackberry and cherry jam, currants, cassis, cola, licorice and spice, wrapped into a texture of velvet and silk. Delicious and compelling. Only 126 cases produced.",Widdoes Vineyard,95,42.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lost Canyon
114,US,"There's a lot going on in this complex Chardonnay. The balance strikes you first, with crisp, zesty acidity cleansing the palate and preparing it for the onslaught of flavor. Then a tsunami of grilled pineapples, Meyer lemon pie filling, crème brûlée, butterscotch and vanilla hits. So devastatingly good, you can't keep your hands off it.",Estate,95,42.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Failla
115,US,"An awesome Syrah that proves that, while size isn't everything, it does matter. A major league wine, brilliantly packed with currant, black cherry, licorice and pepper flavors whose power is hard to exaggerate. For all that, the wine never loses its balance and sense of proportion. So good now, you won't be able to keep your hands off it, but it should hold for six years.",Phoenix Ranch,95,42.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Syrah,Failla
116,US,"There's a lot going on in this complex Chardonnay. The balance strikes you first, with crisp, zesty acidity cleansing the palate and preparing it for the onslaught of flavor. Then a tsunami of grilled pineapples, Meyer lemon pie filling, crème brûlée, butterscotch and vanilla hits. So devastatingly good, you can't keep your hands off it.",Estate,95,42.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Failla
117,US,"An awesome Syrah that proves that, while size isn't everything, it does matter. A major league wine, brilliantly packed with currant, black cherry, licorice and pepper flavors whose power is hard to exaggerate. For all that, the wine never loses its balance and sense of proportion. So good now, you won't be able to keep your hands off it, but it should hold for six years.",Phoenix Ranch,95,42.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Syrah,Failla
118,US,"Though the blend includes small portions of other grapes—9% Syrah, 3% Merlot and 5% Cabernet Franc—this really champions the essential character of great Washington Cabernet. Its core fruit is supple and compact cassis and black cherry, with a spicy top note that resonates well into the finish. Concentrated and beautifully proportioned, with black olive and just a hint of leaf in the finish.",RiverBend Vineyard,95,42.0,Washington,Wahluke Slope,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Fielding Hills
119,US,"A great Rincon Chardonnay, Talley's best ever. So rich and dramatically layered in pineapple tart, Meyer lemon custard, Key lime pie, golden apricot, mango and vanilla oak flavors, yet so briskly acidic and bright, with a firm minerality, like a lick of cold steel. Only 460 cases produced, but worth a special search.",Rincon Vineyard,95,42.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Talley
120,US,"From the wildest, most remote and exotic stretch of the Sonoma Coast: you can taste the salt of the sea in this wine, as you can in a Manzanilla Sherry. It gives a tang to the lemondrop, pear and honeysuckle flavors, with their lick of cold granite. So pure and vibrant, so savory, so compelling. Grows more fascinating with every minute in the glass.",Estate,97,42.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Failla
121,US,"There's a lot going on in this complex Chardonnay. The balance strikes you first, with crisp, zesty acidity cleansing the palate and preparing it for the onslaught of flavor. Then a tsunami of grilled pineapples, Meyer lemon pie filling, crème brûlée, butterscotch and vanilla hits. So devastatingly good, you can't keep your hands off it.",Estate,95,42.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Failla
122,US,"This is the winery's first single-vineyard Merlot. Polished and dense, its aromatics are a multidimensional mix of cassis, espresso, cacao and tobacco. Firm and full, the flavors continue along the same lines, going deep into a thoroughly satisfying finish.",Klipsun Vineyard,95,42.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Merlot,JM Cellars
123,US,"A stunning Pinot Noir, and a worthy followup to Drew's 2006 bottling. Interestingly, the official alcohol is nearly 1% lower at no loss of ripeness, a testimony to the success of the vintage. Offers everything you want in a fine coastal Pinot: crisp acidity, a dry, silky mouthfeel, refined tannins, complexity and ageability. The flavors include red cherries and currants, cola, sassafras, red licorice and Asian spices. Great now and through 2013.",Fog-Eater,95,42.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Drew
124,US,"An awesome Syrah that proves that, while size isn't everything, it does matter. A major league wine, brilliantly packed with currant, black cherry, licorice and pepper flavors whose power is hard to exaggerate. For all that, the wine never loses its balance and sense of proportion. So good now, you won't be able to keep your hands off it, but it should hold for six years.",Phoenix Ranch,95,42.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Syrah,Failla
125,US,"A great Rincon Chardonnay, Talley's best ever. So rich and dramatically layered in pineapple tart, Meyer lemon custard, Key lime pie, golden apricot, mango and vanilla oak flavors, yet so briskly acidic and bright, with a firm minerality, like a lick of cold steel. Only 460 cases produced, but worth a special search.",Rincon Vineyard,95,42.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Talley
126,US,"From the wildest, most remote and exotic stretch of the Sonoma Coast: you can taste the salt of the sea in this wine, as you can in a Manzanilla Sherry. It gives a tang to the lemondrop, pear and honeysuckle flavors, with their lick of cold granite. So pure and vibrant, so savory, so compelling. Grows more fascinating with every minute in the glass.",Estate,97,42.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Failla
127,US,"From the wildest, most remote and exotic stretch of the Sonoma Coast: you can taste the salt of the sea in this wine, as you can in a Manzanilla Sherry. It gives a tang to the lemondrop, pear and honeysuckle flavors, with their lick of cold granite. So pure and vibrant, so savory, so compelling. Grows more fascinating with every minute in the glass.",Estate,97,42.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Failla
128,US,"This unique Syrah vineyard is located at the northwestern edge of the Columbia Valley AVA. Exotic, silky and compelling, the aromas and flavors combine gorgeously sleek berry fruit flavors with a foundation of liquid rock (hence the vineyard name). Supple, authoritative and long, it gathers both strength and subtlety as it breathes.",Rocky Mother Vineyard,95,42.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Nefarious Cellars
129,US,"Firm in acids, with some tannins, yet not at all hard. This is a magnificent, masculine Pinot Noir. It floods the palate with cherry pie, cola and mocha flavors, Asian spices and a sweet, smoky, buttery phyllo pastry quality. So technically perfect, with such structure, it seems guaranteed for the cellar. Drink now through 2010, but who knows how long it will last.",Fe Ciega Vineyard,95,43.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Longoria
130,US,"Firm in acids, with some tannins, yet not at all hard. This is a magnificent, masculine Pinot Noir. It floods the palate with cherry pie, cola and mocha flavors, Asian spices and a sweet, smoky, buttery phyllo pastry quality. So technically perfect, with such structure, it seems guaranteed for the cellar. Drink now through 2010, but who knows how long it will last.",Fe Ciega Vineyard,95,43.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Longoria
131,US,"The fruit is massive, succulent in pineapple custard, Key lime pie and roasted coconut, and the oak is also powerful in new, charred character. There there's the brilliant acidity that makes it all work.",Rosemary's Vineyard,96,44.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Talley
132,US,"Amazing aromas of cherry, cedar, cocoa powder and vanilla-clove cigarettes hit the nose on this stellar interpretation of the six-year-old appellation. It's supple and rich on the palate, with mocha, juicy red berries and plenty of exciting zing.",7200 Grassini Family Vineyard,95,44.0,California,Happy Canyon of Santa Barbara,Central Coast,Cabernet Sauvignon,Foxen 7200
133,US,"This is absolutely delicious, offering heady waves of orange marmalade, butterscotch candy, crème brûlée and honey that are wildly opulent. This is a go-to bottling for very sweet, unctuous California dessert wines.",Botrytised,95,44.0,California,Chalk Hill,Sonoma,Sémillon,Chalk Hill
134,US,"An exotic Pinot Noir, feral and exciting in its appeal. Wildly complex, with the scents of a summertime walk through a coastal California woodland. Forest floor, mushroom, wild cherries and raspberries, roasted shank bone, licorice, sandalwood—the flavors go on and on, balanced with crisp acidity. So dry; a joy to experience.",Las Hermanas Vineyard,96,44.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Samsara
135,US,"This is a dazzling Pinot Noir, so gorgeous to drink for its rich, complex deliciousness. Yet appealing as it is now, there are multiple subtleties waiting to be discovered, and the wine has a fine future. Like all of Marimar's Pinots, it's a big wine—rich and extracted and dense in weight. The flavors veer towards ripe pomegranates, black cherries and sweet licorice, with hints of dark chocolate, orange peel and even the umami of charcuterie. Despite the weight, it magically remains lithe, like a ballerina leaping into the air. Drink now–2019, as it gradually ages.",Mas Cavalls Doña Margarita Vineyard Unfiltered,95,44.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Marimar Estate
136,US,"This has astonishing depth of flavor, with dense black fruits marbled with notes of smoked meat, clove, balsamic and an earthy flavor. It's a wine to savor and cellar.",Lagniappe,96,45.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Gramercy
137,US,"Most of the grapes came from the Annapolis Vineyard, with some from Seascape. While the vintage was cool, it gave incredibly long hangtime. Dry, crisp and delicate, the wine has a silky voluptuousness that makes it irresistible, with pie-filling cherry and black raspberry flavors finished with Asian spice. New French oak adds toast and vanilla sweetness. It's expensive, but still a bargain.",Land's Edge Vineyards,96,45.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hartford Court
138,US,"A dramatic wine, authoritative in tannins, bone dry and noble. Withholds its best under a cloak of astringency, but already shows its mountain terroir in the complexity of its structure and deep, intense blackberry, currant, blueberry and dried herb flavors. Should develop bottle complexities for at least a decade and probably longer.",Monument Ridge,96,45.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stonestreet
139,US,"Lucky Failla gets to source grapes from this vineyard that most winemakers would trade their left arm for. It's lush, ripe and amazingly generous in raspberries and cherries, yet retains an elegant balance, as well as fine, mouthwatering acidity. Part of the attraction is low alcohol, which lets the stones and earthy complexities of the wine shine through. This is really a brilliant wine—light, delicate and powerful. If you want to age it for eight years or so, you won't be sorry.",Keefer Ranch,95,45.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Failla
140,US,"Very, very sweet and decadent, like pure honey. Nectar of the gods-type wine, oozing spicy apricot, orange, roasted almond and vanilla honey flavors. To describe the mouthfeel as creamy hardly does it justice, it's so viscous and glyceriney. A magnificent dessert wine to savor.",Botrytised,95,45.0,California,Chalk Hill,Sonoma,Sémillon,Chalk Hill
141,US,"This was fermented with 50% whole clusters, which slows down and evens up the process. Along with rich flavors of black raspberry fruit, it's dense with savory herbs and marvelous details of earth and forest floor. Delicious now, but just wait until 2020–2022!",Boushey Vineyard Le Midi,95,45.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,Grenache,Maison Bleue
142,US,"This vineyard has proved itself for so many years that it's practically a guarantee of greatness. This 2008 is a real stunner. It's so rich and exotic, so balanced and dry, so clean. Dazzles with pear, pineapple, lychee, roasted hazelnut, crème brûlée, buttered toast, honey and spice flavors, wrapped into a creamy smooth mouthfeel. Brilliant and compelling. Drink now.",Dutton Ranch Rued Vineyard,96,45.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Dutton-Goldfield
143,US,"Absolutely delicious, first-rate Chard from this veteran producer. Shows the prettiest balance of all its parts, and just about as good as California Chard gets. Ripely opulent in tropical fruit, apricot and tangerine flavors and crisp in limey acids, the wine's 50% new oak adds luscious notes of buttercream, toast, smoke and vanilla.",Damiana Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Santa Cruz Mountains,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Thomas Fogarty
144,US,"This luscious Pinot is impressive now for the power of its black currant, cherry, raspberry, vanilla, cola and Provençal herb flavors, with their firm backbone of acidity. It's the kind of Pinot that dazzles from the first sip to the last, as it evolves in the glass. The tannins are sweet and gentle, but supportive enough to allow this gorgeous wine to age for six to eight years.",Rapley Trail Vineyard M Block,95,45.0,California,Santa Cruz Mountains,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Thomas Fogarty
145,US,"This might be one of the best values on the market, given the quality. Equal parts pretty and funky, it's a tightly wound, savory, fruity wine that's elegant and compelling. The tannins and oak are lightly imprinted around strawberry-rhubarb and fresh-cut rose, and the texture seductively silky. This is a delicious treat of a wine that should also age.",Russian River Selection,95,45.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Gary Farrell
146,US,"The 2009 Bully includes 10% Petit Verdot. It's seamless and complete, a firm, muscular, dark, smoky/earthy Cab with substantial tannins. The deeply powerful black fruits have a vivid presence and a slightly roasted character. This is a big bruiser, but beautifully proportioned.",The Bully,95,45.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Gorman
147,US,"Although this Cab is quite tannic, it's really good now. Shows impeccable balance in a New World style that oozes black and red currants, dark chocolate, licorice, cedar and plums, with a note of raw, bloody meat. Very high quality, an excellent rendition of western Paso Robles hillside Cabernet. Good through 2015, with proper cellaring.",Reserve,95,45.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Cabernet,Justin
148,US,"Once again, the Syrah from the Rocky Mother Vineyard proves its mettle, with a young, juicy, jammy, joyful expression of pure berry flavor. Compelling structure, amazing purity and a well-modulated hint of chocolate from aging in 20% new French oak complete the picture.",Rocky Mother Vineyard Estate,95,45.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Nefarious Cellars
149,US,"Firm, chewy, young, tight and yet quite supple and fulfilling, this stunning Cabernet is packed with a rainbow of fruit flavors—blueberry, black currant and black cherry—that open into a seamless, beautifully proportioned wine. The scents and flavors run the gamut from citrus peel to clove to oy to chocolate, espresso and beyond.",Père de Famille,95,45.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
150,US,"An enormously opulent wine, brimming with gobs of red cherries, currants, mocha, clove, cinnamon and pepper flavors. Impresses for the lushness and integrity of the structure. Brilliant wine, just gorgeous, a real crowd-pleaser. With its recent track record, Kynsi enters the front ranks of California Pinot Noir producers.",Stone Corral Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Edna Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Kynsi
151,US,"Chateau St. Jean continues to teach Chard wannabes how the game is played. This is a huge wine, but one of extraordinary finesse and interest. One reason is winemaker Margo van Staaveren's instinct for controlled tension. Another is the winery's access to fruit from throughout the county. Rich and opulent and powerful, this Chardonnay is, in a word, great.",Reserve,95,45.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Chateau St. Jean
152,US,"An extraordinarily decadent Mourvèdre, Grenache and Syrah blend, currently among the best in California. Hard to describe how delicious the raspberry, blackberry, chocolate, orange, granola, sandalwood and spice flavors are. There's a rich, velvety, liqueur-like texture, and while the wine tastes fantastically sweet, it finishes dry, a marvelous achievement. Production was a mere 315 cases.",Montage,95,45.0,California,Mount Veeder,Napa,G-S-M,Scaggs Vineyard
153,US,"This year's Rosemary's is dry, crisp in citrusy acids, and wonderfully complex. It shows fresh, sweet pineapple fruit and spicy overtones of cinnamon and nutmeg along with layers of minerals and dried herbs. Easily takes its place in the front ranks of California Chardonnay.",Rosemary's Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Talley
154,US,"Spectacular, with opening young wine characteristics displaying naturally tart, spicy mixed red fruits. New barrel flavors of chocolate, smoke and toast are out in front, but right behind is glorious fruit—fully ripe, sweet and succulent, concentrated and rich. It finishes gracefully with nuances of iron filings and fresh herb.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard,95,45.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
155,US,"What a roll St. Jean has been on with Chardonnay. This wine was made from a majority of Robert Young and Belle Terre vineyard fruit, and is two-thirds new French oak. The combination is mind-blowing. The vineyards contribute concentrated spicy, tropical fruit flavors and perfect acid balance, while the oak provides elaborate seasoning. Absolutely delicious. One of the most satisfying Chards of the vintage.",Reserve,96,45.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Chateau St. Jean
156,US,"This pure Cabernet from a lush vintage comes together in a wonderfully supple, dense and complex mix of red and black fruit, coffee, mocha and toast flavors. There is no part of this wine that is not thoroughly delicious. It's very satisfying, long and luscious, with plenty of life ahead—but why wait?",XV,96,45.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Dunham
157,US,"With the 2009 vintage, De Loach is at the top of its Pinot Noir game, and this one, from a chilly vineyard south of Sebastopol, is among its best ever. The crisp acidity, like a squirt of lime, that accompanies the raspberry, cherry and persimmon fruit is bracing. Meanwhile, a mushroomy earthiness gives complex layers that don't stop. It should age through the next decade.",Pennacchio Vineyard,96,45.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,De Loach
158,US,"A brilliant Chardonnay, displaying both the terroir of this fine upland part of Monterey County, and the cool vintage that let the grapes hang on the vines until they were perfectly ripe. Dazzles with pineapple and mango fruit, with a perfect jacket of sweet, vanilla-scented oak. Best of all is the acidity, which is brisk, bright and clean.",Sierra Mar Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Roar
159,US,"Richly creamy, the flavors suggest dried peaches and mangoes and a buttery, vanilla-rich pineapple crème brûlée, with a complex spicebox finish.",Hillside Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Edna Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Wedell Cellars
160,US,"Look out, Hermitage, this has the grip, the earthiness, the herbs and spice, and above all the massive, ripe, complex fruit to compete. The layers of this wine just keep unfolding; the longer it breathes, the more it gives you. Crushed rock, lead pencil, Asian spice, blackberry, coffee and caramel…it never stops. What a superb achievement.",South Face Block Reserve,95,45.0,Oregon,Southern Oregon,Southern Oregon,Syrah,Abacela
161,US,"This barrel-fermented Chardonnay, from the oldest plantings (1972) in Washington State, displays exceptional concentration and palate weight. Apple pie, pear tart, baking spice, butter and caramel flavors abound. It's rich and packed with fruit, along with the seductive flavors that aging in new French oak can provide.",Kestrel Vineyard,95,45.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,Chardonnay,Ashan
162,US,"The dryness, crispness and overall elegance of this Pinot Noir make it compelling. It's a miracle how it manages to be so low in alcohol, yet so rich. Dusty Asian spices like nutmeg and cinnamon accentuate flavors of mashed red cherries, red currants, cola and cedar, with a tease of rosehip tea. Shows extraordinary tension. Drink now–2012.",Knox Alexander,95,45.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Au Bon Climat
163,US,"Spectacular, with opening young wine characteristics displaying naturally tart, spicy mixed red fruits. New barrel flavors of chocolate, smoke and toast are out in front, but right behind is glorious fruit—fully ripe, sweet and succulent, concentrated and rich. It finishes gracefully with nuances of iron filings and fresh herb.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard,95,45.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
164,US,"An extraordinarily decadent Mourvèdre, Grenache and Syrah blend, currently among the best in California. Hard to describe how delicious the raspberry, blackberry, chocolate, orange, granola, sandalwood and spice flavors are. There's a rich, velvety, liqueur-like texture, and while the wine tastes fantastically sweet, it finishes dry, a marvelous achievement. Production was a mere 315 cases.",Montage,95,45.0,California,Mount Veeder,Napa,G-S-M,Scaggs Vineyard
165,US,"Firm, chewy, young, tight and yet quite supple and fulfilling, this stunning Cabernet is packed with a rainbow of fruit flavors—blueberry, black currant and black cherry—that open into a seamless, beautifully proportioned wine. The scents and flavors run the gamut from citrus peel to clove to oy to chocolate, espresso and beyond.",Père de Famille,95,45.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
166,US,"A gorgeous Pinot Noir whose translucent silkiness and delicacy mask a wine of considerable potency. Shows true elegance in the racy mouthfeel and dryness, with compelling, complex flavors of tart red cherries, pomegranates, rhubarb, orange peel, rose petal, vanilla and smoke. Distinguished and ageworthy. Now–2013.",Rancho Santa Rosa Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Longoria
167,US,"With the 2009 vintage, De Loach is at the top of its Pinot Noir game, and this one, from a chilly vineyard south of Sebastopol, is among its best ever. The crisp acidity, like a squirt of lime, that accompanies the raspberry, cherry and persimmon fruit is bracing. Meanwhile, a mushroomy earthiness gives complex layers that don't stop. It should age through the next decade.",Pennacchio Vineyard,96,45.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,De Loach
168,US,"I love this wine for its balance and dryness. The texture is velvety-silky and gently tannic, while the flavors are complex, suggesting red cherries with the astringent skins, mashed black raspberries, tangerines, cola, root beer, dark unsweetened chocolate, a touch of cassis liqueur, and something earthy, like Portobello mushrooms. This is really a gorgeous Pinot Noir that will develop over the next five years or so.",Doña Margarita Vineyard,96,45.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Marimar Estate
169,US,"A very fine Chard, complex and layered, and quite dry. Acidity makes the tangerine, kumquat, ripe yellow pear, roasted pineapple and oaky, crème brûlée flavors really come alive. After you swallow, the wine leaves behind a delicious impression.",Dutton Ranch Rued Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Dutton-Goldfield
170,US,"A brilliant Chardonnay, displaying both the terroir of this fine upland part of Monterey County, and the cool vintage that let the grapes hang on the vines until they were perfectly ripe. Dazzles with pineapple and mango fruit, with a perfect jacket of sweet, vanilla-scented oak. Best of all is the acidity, which is brisk, bright and clean.",Sierra Mar Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Roar
171,US,"This wine is so loaded with glycerine, it actually pours slow from the bottle, like honey. With 17.4 grams of residual sugar, it's decadently, deliriously sweet, but sugar is not its only charm. There's a fabulous flood of apricots, pineapples, peaches and limes, concentrated to their essence and geléed, enriched with pure vanilla and clover honey and dusted with cinnamon. Doesn't that sound good?",Special Select Late Harvest,95,45.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,White Riesling,Arrowood
172,US,"Four things define this wine. Extraordinarily ripe fruit, high acidity, a terroir-driven minerality, and lots of new French oak. The flavors are of tropical fruits, the ripest white peaches and vanilla cream, baked into spicy pastry crust. The impression is of impossible richness, California Chardonnay at its most opulent, flamboyant limit.",Dutton Ranch Rued Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Dutton-Goldfield
173,US,"Coming from this exceptional winery the term reserve (or in this case, riservata) actually means a great deal. Flavors are broad and deep and entwined with plum, cherry compote, soy and chocolate. The length and power are impressive: these flavors just don't quit.",Estate Riservata,95,45.0,Oregon,Chehalem Mountains,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Alloro
174,US,"This vineyard has proved itself for so many years that it's practically a guarantee of greatness. This 2008 is a real stunner. It's so rich and exotic, so balanced and dry, so clean. Dazzles with pear, pineapple, lychee, roasted hazelnut, crème brûlée, buttered toast, honey and spice flavors, wrapped into a creamy smooth mouthfeel. Brilliant and compelling. Drink now.",Dutton Ranch Rued Vineyard,96,45.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Dutton-Goldfield
175,US,"This might be one of the best values on the market, given the quality. Equal parts pretty and funky, it's a tightly wound, savory, fruity wine that's elegant and compelling. The tannins and oak are lightly imprinted around strawberry-rhubarb and fresh-cut rose, and the texture seductively silky. This is a delicious treat of a wine that should also age.",Russian River Selection,95,45.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Gary Farrell
176,US,"This splendid, resonant, beautifully detailed wine captures everything that is most desirable in the 2014 vintage. Blackberry and black cherry fruit, adorned with a sprinkling of Sumatra coffee beans, rocks on with polished tannins. The pleasing roasted character is just right to power it through a clean, sexy finish. Drink now and on through 2026.",Gran Moraine Vineyard,95,45.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Aberrant Cellars
177,US,"Spectacular, with opening young wine characteristics displaying naturally tart, spicy mixed red fruits. New barrel flavors of chocolate, smoke and toast are out in front, but right behind is glorious fruit—fully ripe, sweet and succulent, concentrated and rich. It finishes gracefully with nuances of iron filings and fresh herb.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard,95,45.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
178,US,"What a roll St. Jean has been on with Chardonnay. This wine was made from a majority of Robert Young and Belle Terre vineyard fruit, and is two-thirds new French oak. The combination is mind-blowing. The vineyards contribute concentrated spicy, tropical fruit flavors and perfect acid balance, while the oak provides elaborate seasoning. Absolutely delicious. One of the most satisfying Chards of the vintage.",Reserve,96,45.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Chateau St. Jean
179,US,"This year's Rosemary's is dry, crisp in citrusy acids, and wonderfully complex. It shows fresh, sweet pineapple fruit and spicy overtones of cinnamon and nutmeg along with layers of minerals and dried herbs. Easily takes its place in the front ranks of California Chardonnay.",Rosemary's Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Talley
180,US,"San Jose-based producer Adam Comartin heads 1,100 feet up into the mountains to source fruit for this tremendous wine, which offers wild cherry, sage, and eucalyptus scents on the nose. Ripe black plum and strawberry fruit lead the palate, followed by acid-driven waves of juniper, pine and bay leaf, finishing with a menthol-like sensation.",R-Bar-R Ranch,95,45.0,California,Santa Cruz Mountains,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Comartin
181,US,"This shows winemaker Greg LaFollette's master touch in the way he's balanced the wine and kept it harmonious. It's a huge mouthful of cherry pie and cassis flavor, with the most delicate notes of raspberries, toasted meringue and vanilla, subtlely spiced and dry. A gorgeous Pinot Noir that superbly combines power with elegance.",30th Anniversary Cuvee,96,45.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,De Loach
182,US,"Tasted at more than four years of age, this is a standout effort in a series that dates back to the mid-1990s. A complex nose greets you with a floral, dusty tickle, leading into a fruit-packed wine, with blueberry and black cherry most evident. Notes of black olive and graphite come through on the long finish, with exceptional grip and polish.",XIII,95,45.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Dunham
183,US,"Longoria has taken full advantage of the fine 2007 vintage in producing this massive, ageable Pinot Noir. It stuns with the richness of black cherries and red currants that have an edge of cocoa and pepper, yet finishes totally dry, with balancing acidity. Best of all is the authoritative mouthfeel. This gorgeous Pinot is very great now, and should evolve through 2013. Unfortunately, only 111 cases were produced.",Bien Nacido Vineyard,96,45.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Longoria
184,US,"An enormously opulent wine, brimming with gobs of red cherries, currants, mocha, clove, cinnamon and pepper flavors. Impresses for the lushness and integrity of the structure. Brilliant wine, just gorgeous, a real crowd-pleaser. With its recent track record, Kynsi enters the front ranks of California Pinot Noir producers.",Stone Corral Vineyard,95,45.0,California,Edna Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Kynsi
185,US,"This vineyard has proved itself for so many years that it's practically a guarantee of greatness. This 2008 is a real stunner. It's so rich and exotic, so balanced and dry, so clean. Dazzles with pear, pineapple, lychee, roasted hazelnut, crème brûlée, buttered toast, honey and spice flavors, wrapped into a creamy smooth mouthfeel. Brilliant and compelling. Drink now.",Dutton Ranch Rued Vineyard,96,45.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Dutton-Goldfield
186,US,"Very impressive—dark, aromatic, totally ripe and saturated, yet retaining Syrah's delicate, floral aromatics, streaks of citrus, amplified with a stunning array of harmonic accents. The flavors waft along, powerful and refined, plush and muscular; the wine seems to gather force and length as it extends into finishing flavors of licorice, smoke and coffee.",Lady Rosa,95,45.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,Syrah,Owen Roe
187,US,"Chardonnays from this vineyard are virtually guaranteed to be among the richest in California, and Talley's 2008 certainly doesn't disappoint. It's a massively structured, flamboyant wine, tremendous in tropical fruit, pear, peach and apple flavors that taste like they've been baked into a pie, along with the sweet, smoky crust. A tremendous wine that must be paired with equally sized food. Lobster and scallops come to mind, served in rich cream and butter sauces.",Rosemary's Vineyard,95,46.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Talley
188,US,"It's hard to imagine a Syrah more attractive than this. In addition to the wealth of raspberry and red currant flavors and the wonderfully sweet new oak, it is extremely well balanced. The tannins are luxurious, the acid crisp and fine, the complexity a delight and the finish dry and long. This full-bodied selection offers refinement and intellectual appeal. Drink now–2016 for freshness.",Williamson-Doré Vineyard,95,46.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Syrah,Foxen
189,US,"Extraordinarily rich and ripe, if a little high in alcohol. Shows great extract, with masses of squashed, gooey cherries, raspberries and oodles of spices. Feels opulent and dramatic, with smoky oak adding to the complex, almost feral layers. So much going on in the glass. Just gorgeous now, and should hold and develop over the next 4–5 years.",Carrie's,95,46.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Melville
190,US,"Extraordinarily rich and ripe, if a little high in alcohol. Shows great extract, with masses of squashed, gooey cherries, raspberries and oodles of spices. Feels opulent and dramatic, with smoky oak adding to the complex, almost feral layers. So much going on in the glass. Just gorgeous now, and should hold and develop over the next 4–5 years.",Carrie's,95,46.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Melville
191,US,"Chardonnays from this vineyard are virtually guaranteed to be among the richest in California, and Talley's 2008 certainly doesn't disappoint. It's a massively structured, flamboyant wine, tremendous in tropical fruit, pear, peach and apple flavors that taste like they've been baked into a pie, along with the sweet, smoky crust. A tremendous wine that must be paired with equally sized food. Lobster and scallops come to mind, served in rich cream and butter sauces.",Rosemary's Vineyard,95,46.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Talley
192,US,"Extraordinarily rich and ripe, if a little high in alcohol. Shows great extract, with masses of squashed, gooey cherries, raspberries and oodles of spices. Feels opulent and dramatic, with smoky oak adding to the complex, almost feral layers. So much going on in the glass. Just gorgeous now, and should hold and develop over the next 4–5 years.",Carrie's,95,46.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Melville
193,US,"This is a small production barrel selection from the estate vineyard in Green Valley. It's very rich and quite young, too primary and tannic to drink now, but extraordinarily rich in the cherries, blackberries, blueberries and Asian spices that characterize the estate. Best 2008–2012.",Cristina Don Miguel Vineyard,95,47.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Marimar Estate
194,US,"From the winery's Phinny Hill vineyard, the Columbia Rediviva is 48% Cabernet Sauvignon and 52% Syrah. Complex and satiny, it's a riveting wine, inky and bursting with a sensuous mix of berry, cassis, mocha, loam, cinnamon and spice. Tremendous density and depth; despite its youth the wine curls around the tongue like thick smoke, showing more and more detail.",Columbia Rediviva,96,48.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon-Syrah,Buty
195,US,"Force Majeure and Ciel du Cheval are the sources for this pure, compelling Red Mountain Syrah. The complex aromatics shoot up a smorgasbord of cured meat, truffle and umami notes, leading into a crisp, racy palate with lovely blueberry-dominated fruit flavors. Aging in 500-liter puncheons smoothes it out while contributing just a hint of new toast.",Wild Eyed,95,48.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Syrah,Mark Ryan
196,US,"From 18-year-old vines, this supple well-balanced effort blends flavors of mocha, cherry, vanilla and breakfast tea. Superbly integrated and delicious even at this early stage, this wine seems destined for a long and savory cellar life. Drink now through 2028.",Estate Vineyard Wadensvil Block,95,48.0,Oregon,Ribbon Ridge,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Patricia Green Cellars
197,US,"A standout even in this terrific lineup of 2015 releases from Patricia Green, the Weber opens with a burst of cola and tobacco scents and accents. It continues, subtle and detailed, with flavors of oranges, vanilla, tea and milk chocolate discreetly threaded through ripe blackberry fruit.",Weber Vineyard,95,48.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Patricia Green Cellars
198,US,"An absolutely lovely Pinot, the best in Gainey's long career. Dry, smooth and silky, it defines Pinot's more Burgundian side, with mushroomy notes along with perfectly ripe cherries and raspberries, accented with brilliant acidity. The oak treatment is tasteful and blends in seamlessly, offering a hint of toast. The wine treads an exciting line between ripeness and earthiness, while keeping alcohol to a refreshingly low 14.1%. This is a connoisseur's wine.",Limited Selection,95,48.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Gainey
199,US,"This impressive bubbly has apple, caramel and toffee aromas, melt-in-the-mouth Bosc pear and spice rack flavors, a rich but firm texture, and long finish. It possesses amazing liveliness, body and depth, and seems to reveal more nuances and freshness with each sip. While terrific to drink now, it can be cellared through at least 2020.",L'Ermitage Brut,96,48.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Sparkling Blend,Roederer Estate
200,US,"This wine's magically layered nose blends graphite, black cherries, dried violets, hints of savory smoke meats and the oddly captivating scent of composting rose petals. From a vineyard on the appellation's eastern edge come a spice rack of flavors, from black peppercorns and hoisin sauce to soy and blackberry fruit.",John Sebastiano Vineyard,95,48.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Foxen
201,US,"An all-encompassing and earthy richness on the nose of this wine blends dried strawberry, Bing cherry and sour cherry fruits with damp herbs like dewy sagebrush and dark chocolate bars. It's thick once sipped, with ripe raspberry and dried cherry fruits. Spicy fennel and cardamom arrives on the midpalate, finishing with a zing of Sichuan peppercorn and shiitake mushrooms.",Stone Corral Vineyard,95,48.0,California,Edna Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Kynsi
202,US,"Very fruity and fresh in aroma, this elegant wine has light, crisp apple and lemon flavors, fresh-baked bread accents and lively acidity. A layered texture seems to blend in accents of almond and vanilla, increasing complexity with each sip. It's one of California's blue-chip bubblies.",Brut L'Ermitage Estate Bottled,95,48.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Sparkling Blend,Roederer Estate
203,US,"A blend of 64% Merlot and 27% Cabernet Franc, with splashes of Malbec and Petit Verdot, this is built for the long haul. Raspberries, cherries and rich chocolate run through this fine-tuned, focused wine. It's deep, elegant and penetrating, with a show-stopping layer of pure mineral that is so powerful the fruit seems soaked in rock.",Long Haul Merlot-Cabernet Franc-Malbec-Petit Verdot,95,48.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Mark Ryan
204,US,"Very fruity and fresh in aroma, this elegant wine has light, crisp apple and lemon flavors, fresh-baked bread accents and lively acidity. A layered texture seems to blend in accents of almond and vanilla, increasing complexity with each sip. It's one of California's blue-chip bubblies.",Brut L'Ermitage Estate Bottled,95,48.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Sparkling Blend,Roederer Estate
205,US,"The vineyard is about 1,000 feet above Boonville. The wine is impeccable. Crisp in acidity, with a silky, elegant texture, it shows complex flavors of cherries, raspberries, cola, orange zest, Asian spices and earthy rhubarb. It's dry, but with a rich, fruity-oaky sweetness. Delicious and compelling, it should develop over the next 6–8 years.",Cerise Vineyard,96,48.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Chronicle
206,US,"This wine's magically layered nose blends graphite, black cherries, dried violets, hints of savory smoke meats and the oddly captivating scent of composting rose petals. From a vineyard on the appellation's eastern edge come a spice rack of flavors, from black peppercorns and hoisin sauce to soy and blackberry fruit.",John Sebastiano Vineyard,95,48.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Foxen
207,US,"This first estate-grown bottling of Rediviva is 55% Cabernet Sauvignon and 45% Syrah. Amazing aromatic complexity grabs you and leads you into the dark interior of the wine, a riot of red and black fruits, moist earth, smoke, anise, herb and toast. Power and elegance combined, with the structure to age for a decade or more.",Columbia Rediviva,96,48.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon-Syrah,Buty
208,US,"An absolutely lovely Pinot, the best in Gainey's long career. Dry, smooth and silky, it defines Pinot's more Burgundian side, with mushroomy notes along with perfectly ripe cherries and raspberries, accented with brilliant acidity. The oak treatment is tasteful and blends in seamlessly, offering a hint of toast. The wine treads an exciting line between ripeness and earthiness, while keeping alcohol to a refreshingly low 14.1%. This is a connoisseur's wine.",Limited Selection,95,48.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Gainey
209,US,"This first estate-grown bottling of Rediviva is 55% Cabernet Sauvignon and 45% Syrah. Amazing aromatic complexity grabs you and leads you into the dark interior of the wine, a riot of red and black fruits, moist earth, smoke, anise, herb and toast. Power and elegance combined, with the structure to age for a decade or more.",Columbia Rediviva,96,48.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon-Syrah,Buty
210,US,"A top-rank Pinot Noir, dry, silky and elegant, with moderate alcohol despite great richness. The flavors of cherries, cola, plums and herbs are simply delicious, while the structure displays great integrity of acids and tannins. A bit tight now in youth, it should unfold over the next eight years. If you pop the cork now, give it a few hours of airing.",Fe Ciega Vineyard,95,48.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Longoria
211,US,"An absolutely lovely Pinot, the best in Gainey's long career. Dry, smooth and silky, it defines Pinot's more Burgundian side, with mushroomy notes along with perfectly ripe cherries and raspberries, accented with brilliant acidity. The oak treatment is tasteful and blends in seamlessly, offering a hint of toast. The wine treads an exciting line between ripeness and earthiness, while keeping alcohol to a refreshingly low 14.1%. This is a connoisseur's wine.",Limited Selection,95,48.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Gainey
212,US,"The vineyard is about 1,000 feet above Boonville. The wine is impeccable. Crisp in acidity, with a silky, elegant texture, it shows complex flavors of cherries, raspberries, cola, orange zest, Asian spices and earthy rhubarb. It's dry, but with a rich, fruity-oaky sweetness. Delicious and compelling, it should develop over the next 6–8 years.",Cerise Vineyard,96,48.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Chronicle
213,US,"The winery held this back an additional six months after their other 2008 Pinots were released, presumably to let it become integrated. Still, it's quite tannic, with a sandpaper-like toughness. Despite the astringency, the massive wild-cherry, cola, mushroom and anise flavors come through. It's a huge wine, feral and untamed—quite exquisite in its wildness. So delicious now, it's hard to resist, but the wise collector will cellar it for 4–5 years, maybe even longer.",Cristina Don Miguel Vineyard,95,49.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Marimar Estate
214,US,"Here the high alcohol does not obscure the layered fruits and overall complexity of this exceptional Cabernet. Thick, ripe and richly endowed, it keeps its black fruit, ripe tannins and liquorous barrel notes all in proportion, and pulls in top flight fruit from Champoux, Sagemoor, the estate vineyard and other select sites. Earth, cedar and tobacco notes highlight the extended finish.",Artist Series #18,95,49.0,Washington,Washington,Washington Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Woodward Canyon
215,US,"A very successful Pinot Noir that shows the splendid characteristics of grapes well grown in the far Sonoma Coast, on famed Goldridge soils. Acidity marks it, crisp and vital and nervy. Yet wrapped into the silky mouthfeel are rich, elaborate cherry, raspberry, Dr. Pepper cola, pomegranate, persimmon and sandalwood flavors that are intricate as a tapestry. A great wine that should develop bottle complexities over the next eight years.",Chico's Run Doña Margarita Vineyard,95,49.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Marimar Estate
216,US,"This is a revelation. The complex and site-specific aromas suggest wild herb, lavender, lemon verbena and black olive. The tannins are supple and ripe, with no green edge at all. The fruit combines mineral-soaked black cherry, sweet raspberry compote, and deep cassis. A marvelous wine, dense, detailed and seductive.",Conner Lee Vineyard Conflict,95,50.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,J. Bookwalter
217,US,"Brian Loring's bottling of this vineyard planted by Gary Pisoni and Gary Franscioni is bursting with raspberry syrup, cola and peppercorns on the nose. The palate boasts notes of strawberry juice, red berries and hibiscus. It's luxurious and sexy.",Garys' Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Loring Wine Company
218,US,"A big, bold, exuberantly rich wine, classic Williams Selyem Chard. The underlying wine is all pineapples, peaches, pears and exotic tropical fruits, while oak adds elaborate layers of buttered toast, caramel, nougat and vanilla. Acidity is high, which will help the wine age through 2013.",Heintz Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
219,US,"Super-rich, a fat, opulent Chard that tastes almost as sweet as a dessert, except it's dry. Shows massive flavors of Meyer lemon custard, minerals, pear tart, buttered toast, butterscotch, smoky pie crust and honey, with a sprinkle of cinnamon and nutmeg. Lush and gorgeous.",Allen Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
220,US,"This is a revelation. The complex and site-specific aromas suggest wild herb, lavender, lemon verbena and black olive. The tannins are supple and ripe, with no green edge at all. The fruit combines mineral-soaked black cherry, sweet raspberry compote, and deep cassis. A marvelous wine, dense, detailed and seductive.",Conner Lee Vineyard Conflict,95,50.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,J. Bookwalter
221,US,"This is the winery's most expensive bottling, a late disgorged bubbly that has now seen a decade of age. It shows the elegant polish of the '97 Royal Cuvée, but is superior even to it in richness. The creamy smoothness is the star attraction, but so are the subtle citrus, raspberry, brioche and vanilla flavors. Impeccably dry balance guarantees that this beautiful brut will age effortlessly for 10 years, if not longer.",Carneros Cuvée,95,50.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Gloria Ferrer
222,US,"This late-disgorged wine has been released at the age of 11 years. It's a beautiful wine, notable especially for the ultrafine feeling of the mousse, or bubbles. So refined and silky. Rich too are the flavors, in limes, strawberries, toasty lees and minerals. A spectacular sparkling wine that has many years of development ahead.",Carneros Cuvée,95,50.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Gloria Ferrer
223,US,"This is the tightest, most tannic and ageworthy of Siduri's 2007 Pinot Noirs. It's a huge wine, with a wealth of exotic berry, leather, teriyaki beef, Dr. Pepper, mocha and Asian spice flavors that finish entirely dry. Gorgeous now, and should slowly develop over the next eight years, if not longer.",Hirsch Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Siduri
224,US,"A big, bold, exuberantly rich wine, classic Williams Selyem Chard. The underlying wine is all pineapples, peaches, pears and exotic tropical fruits, while oak adds elaborate layers of buttered toast, caramel, nougat and vanilla. Acidity is high, which will help the wine age through 2013.",Heintz Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
225,US,"This wine shows real first-growth quality in its intensity and concentration, with orange nectar, golden mango, pear, peach pie, buttercream, vanilla, buttered toast and spice flavors. The balance is exquisite, and the way the acids dance along the palate make the wine clean and lively.",Allen Vineyard,97,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
226,US,"This Pinot, from former Tandem partner Greg Bjornstad, defines an exotic, almost feral style of Pinot. There's a raw meat, bloody quality to the wild cherry, blackberry, forest floor and cola flavors that finish in a wild dusting of black pepper and Indian spices. Absolutely unique Pinot Noir, tight, minerally and tannic now, but endlessly fascinating. Has the stuff for eight to 10 years.",Hellenthal Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Bjornstad
227,US,"This is the winery's most expensive bottling, a late disgorged bubbly that has now seen a decade of age. It shows the elegant polish of the '97 Royal Cuvée, but is superior even to it in richness. The creamy smoothness is the star attraction, but so are the subtle citrus, raspberry, brioche and vanilla flavors. Impeccably dry balance guarantees that this beautiful brut will age effortlessly for 10 years, if not longer.",Carneros Cuvée,95,50.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Gloria Ferrer
228,US,"In a word, massive, a masterpiece of Napa Cabernet from a great vintage. A barrel selection from three vineyards, and a mere 275 cases produced. This wine pours dark and thick, and announces itself with smoky oak aromas riding over cassis. The flavors are rich in blackberries and herbs, framed in rich, thick, dusty tannins. As good as it is, it would be a shame to drink it now. Best after 2004, and for many years afterward.",Vineyard Reserve,95,50.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Liparita
229,US,"This Pinot is so good, it's hard to know where to begin. It's dry and full-bodied and bold, with some finely ground tannins. Yet it's perfectly ripe, showing luminous flavors of raspberries, cherries, pomegranates and sweet red plums, enriched with sweet, smoky oak. Fabulous now, and should glide easily through the next six years.",Rosella's Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Roar
230,US,"Tasted alongside its Russian River Valley sister bottling, released at the same time, this new wine from Sonoma-Cutrer founder Brice Jones shows far greater power. Just erupts with masses of sweet cherries and raspberries with a liqueur richness, and nuances of forest floor, pine needles and smoky oak. Really notable for balance. Citrusy acids and firm, sweet tannins give this Pinot, from way out on the Far Sonoma Coast, a brilliant structure. Beautiful now and for the next 10 years.",William Wesley,95,50.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Emeritus
231,US,"From a vineyard east of Napa first planted in 1905, Moore is densely structured and deceptively elegant, all while maintaining an intensity of tart cherry and wild blackberry. Spicy in black pepper and a dusting of cinnamon, it remains vibrant on the palate from start to lengthy finish, a knockout among the producer's consistently high-achieving Zinfandels that should stand the test of time. Cellar through 2023.",R.W. Moore Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Coombsville,Napa,Zinfandel,Robert Biale
232,US,"A tremendous, powerful, authoritative Chardonnay, among the elites of California. Just massive in pineapple-infused crème brûlée, pear custard, buttered toast, roasted hazelnut, and cinnamon spice flavors, offset by refreshing acidity and grounded with a floor of firm minerals. Retains elegance and class despite the power. Drink now–2013. Just 299 cases were produced, but it's worth the search.",Rochioli Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Gary Farrell
233,US,"So good, it makes you want to shout. Possesses the beautifully ripe flavors that are expected of a great vintage, such as blackcurrant, cherry, white chocolate and cassis, with extra edges of smoky caramel and vanilla. The tannins are perfect, soft and easy, but as rich and complex as a Renoir. Differentiates itself from Napa with its softness and accessibility, but as great as anything from across the Mayacamas.",Scion,96,50.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Blend,Robert Young
234,US,"Made from the exotic Scheurebe grape, this is a very sweet wine, brimming with pineapple jam, ripe pear and honeysuckle flavors, with an oily, glyceriney fatness. It's balanced with crisp acidity, so the finish is dry and clean. Just delicious now with fruity desserts, vanilla cake or a buttery lemon soufflé.",Eisrébe,95,50.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Scheurebe,Joseph Phelps
235,US,"Made from the exotic Scheurebe grape, this is a very sweet wine, brimming with pineapple jam, ripe pear and honeysuckle flavors, with an oily, glyceriney fatness. It's balanced with crisp acidity, so the finish is dry and clean. Just delicious now with fruity desserts, vanilla cake or a buttery lemon soufflé.",Eisrébe,95,50.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Scheurebe,Joseph Phelps
236,US,"Super-rich, a fat, opulent Chard that tastes almost as sweet as a dessert, except it's dry. Shows massive flavors of Meyer lemon custard, minerals, pear tart, buttered toast, butterscotch, smoky pie crust and honey, with a sprinkle of cinnamon and nutmeg. Lush and gorgeous.",Allen Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
237,US,"One for the cellar. It's vibrantly rich and forward in blackberries, black cherries, plums, dark chocolate and sweet smoky new oak, yet very tannic. Creates an astringency that lasts through the spicy finish. It would be a pity to open it before 2012, and will last for years after.",Monte Rosso Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Sonoma Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sbragia
238,US,"Amazingly rich, one of the most opulent Chardonnays you can drink now. Just wows the mouth with pineapple, pear, exotic tropical fruit, crème brûlée, vanilla custard, buttered toast and cinnamon spice flavors that go on and on through the finish. Also shows fine, tart acidity, which provides needed balance. Yes, it's superripe, but this is what California Chardonnay does at its best.",Allen Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
239,US,"Bob Cabral's Chardonnays sometimes get lost in the brilliant glare of his Pinot Noirs, but he has spent years exploring the rich, flamboyant side of the variety, with great success. This bottling represents William Selyem Chardonnay at its best. It's ultra-decadent in apricot and pear flavors, with a strong oak influence, and yet an underlying minerality and fine acidity balance it so that it doesn't tire as you drink. In fact, you want more.",Heintz Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
240,US,"A fabulously rich and approachable Pinot Noir that offers everything now, yet will also age. The considerable tannins will protect it in the cellar for a good 6–8 years, but it's so fresh and vibrant in cherries, red currants and oak-inspired red licorice that it's hard not to drink it now. Hard to exaggerate the deliciousness factor.",Southing,95,50.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sea Smoke
241,US,"Showing lovely silkiness, dryness and transparency, this is a Pinot to drink now or age for a while. The flavors are rich but elusive, suggesting wild summer raspberries, cola, pine needles and sautéed mushrooms splashed with balsamic, with the sweet smokiness of oak barrel aging. It's delicate and powerful, but only 47 cases were produced.",Gap's Crown Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Furthermore
242,US,"Clos Pepe is one of those vineyards that rarely fails to dazzle, and Roessler has done as good a job at interpreting it as any of the wineries that designate its fruit. The wine shows a terrific balance of acids, oak and tannins, with an elegantly silky texture and exquisitely ripe, but controlled, cherry, pomegranate, cola, tea and Asian spice flavors that finish with a lip-smacking, chalky minerality.",Clos Pepe Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Roessler
243,US,"A big, bold, exuberantly rich wine, classic Williams Selyem Chard. The underlying wine is all pineapples, peaches, pears and exotic tropical fruits, while oak adds elaborate layers of buttered toast, caramel, nougat and vanilla. Acidity is high, which will help the wine age through 2013.",Heintz Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
244,US,"Bob Cabral's Chardonnays sometimes get lost in the brilliant glare of his Pinot Noirs, but he has spent years exploring the rich, flamboyant side of the variety, with great success. This bottling represents William Selyem Chardonnay at its best. It's ultra-decadent in apricot and pear flavors, with a strong oak influence, and yet an underlying minerality and fine acidity balance it so that it doesn't tire as you drink. In fact, you want more.",Heintz Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
245,US,"Super-rich, a fat, opulent Chard that tastes almost as sweet as a dessert, except it's dry. Shows massive flavors of Meyer lemon custard, minerals, pear tart, buttered toast, butterscotch, smoky pie crust and honey, with a sprinkle of cinnamon and nutmeg. Lush and gorgeous.",Allen Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
246,US,"This distinctive Pinot Noir's source is a tiny vineyard in cool Green Valley; the winegrower is James MacPhail, whose own MacPhail Pinot Noirs are so good. The wine itself is totally dry and silky and firm in acidity, yet soft in fine tannins. You might call it noble. It's eruptive in cherries, sweet smoky bacon, raspberry granola and oaky sandalwood. Gorgeous, seductive and brilliant, a truly great Pinot Noir that's impeccable now.",Sundawg Ridge Vineyard,97,50.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Sequana
247,US,"It's a shame more producers don't hold their Pinot Noirs back longer, for this bottling from Joe Davis reveals so much depth compared to current releases. Raspberry, rose petal, cola and cinnamon stick show on the nose, while the palate offers rounded flavors of dried strawberry, thyme and game. It's all intricately woven by time into something wonderful.",Sierra Madre,95,50.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Arcadian
248,US,"Brilliantly dry and rich in acidity, this Pinot feels very refined in the mouth. With relatively modest alcohol, it offers an elegant and refreshing alternative to the heavy style of many California Pinot Noirs. Offers notes of earth, cherries, mushrooms, spices and sweet sandalwood.",Wentzel,95,50.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Copain Wines
249,US,"‘The Beautiful' lives up to its name and reputation. The aromas shoot from the glass; young, herbal and strikingly peppery. This shows a complexity that is rare outside of France. The flavors run through the entire length of the palate, a fascinating mix of herb, leaf, earth, and tightly wound berry fruit. It's young and crunchy, thought not fleshy, a wine that is a unique combination of masculine and feminine qualities. It should age well for at least a decade.",The Beautiful,95,50.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,K Vintners
250,US,"Very powerful, very strong, almost overwhelming in the sheer wealth of fruit and oak, but balanced with acidity. Winemaker Bob Cabral himself calls it “concentrated.” It detonates on the palate with an almost dessert wine quality of lemons, pineapples, honey, vanilla and minerals, but it's totally dry. Will hold for perhaps six years.",Hawk Hill Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
251,US,"Outstanding. So dry and elegant, with such a deft, delicate texture, yet so explosive in fruit and spice. Bone dry, it has notes of herbs, cinnamon, raspberries and white pepper. A gorgeous, complex wine, one to think about and discuss.",Monument Tree,95,50.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Copain Wines
252,US,"This includes grapes from Block One (the 1972 planting) and several other more recent plantings at Champoux; essentially this is pure Cabernet Sauvignon. It smells like a fine Bordeaux, still very young and tight, with well-defined layers of flavor. Black cherry, cassis, lead pencil, smoke and baking spices are tightly stacked and particularly apparent in the aromas. Give this one a decade or more in the cellar; if you are drinking now, decant for at least two hours.",Champoux Vineyard,95,50.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Januik
253,US,"Bob Cabral's Chardonnays sometimes get lost in the brilliant glare of his Pinot Noirs, but he has spent years exploring the rich, flamboyant side of the variety, with great success. This bottling represents William Selyem Chardonnay at its best. It's ultra-decadent in apricot and pear flavors, with a strong oak influence, and yet an underlying minerality and fine acidity balance it so that it doesn't tire as you drink. In fact, you want more.",Heintz Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
254,US,"Amazingly rich, one of the most opulent Chardonnays you can drink now. Just wows the mouth with pineapple, pear, exotic tropical fruit, crème brûlée, vanilla custard, buttered toast and cinnamon spice flavors that go on and on through the finish. Also shows fine, tart acidity, which provides needed balance. Yes, it's superripe, but this is what California Chardonnay does at its best.",Allen Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
255,US,"This is a generous mouthful of Cabernet, with just small amounts of Merlot and Carmenère in the blend. Chewy, dusty, grainy, tannic and thoroughly delicious, it has the deeply flavored berry and cassis fruit to more than match the French oak. The fruit is wreathed in layers of smoke, charcoal and ash—all in proportion.",Seven Hills Vineyard Reserve Red,95,50.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Tamarack Cellars
256,US,"Amazingly rich, one of the most opulent Chardonnays you can drink now. Just wows the mouth with pineapple, pear, exotic tropical fruit, crème brûlée, vanilla custard, buttered toast and cinnamon spice flavors that go on and on through the finish. Also shows fine, tart acidity, which provides needed balance. Yes, it's superripe, but this is what California Chardonnay does at its best.",Allen Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
257,US,"The acidity really makes this Chardonnay come alive, providing vitality, a quality that's boosted by an undercurrent of minerals. It's so rich in tropical fruit, orange, nectarine and pear flavors, and so generously oaked, which brings a sweet, satisfying note of buttered toast, that all you want to do is drink it now, preferably with steamed lobster and melted butter.",Heintz Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
258,US,"This late-disgorged wine has been released at the age of 11 years. It's a beautiful wine, notable especially for the ultrafine feeling of the mousse, or bubbles. So refined and silky. Rich too are the flavors, in limes, strawberries, toasty lees and minerals. A spectacular sparkling wine that has many years of development ahead.",Carneros Cuvée,95,50.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Gloria Ferrer
259,US,"Rued Ranch consistently is the winery's top bottling. The 2011, like its predecessors, is modest in alcohol but vast in citrus, tropical fruit, honeysuckle and mineral flavors, and enriched with smoky oak and buttery notes. It has a delicate mouthfeel that makes it a joy to savor.",Dutton Ranch Rued Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Dutton-Goldfield
260,US,"A Cabernet Sauvignon and Syrah blend off the estate. The winemaker says the Syrah brings complexity and backbone, although I don't know that the Cabernet needs much help. But this is an extraordinary wine. It's richly sumptuous in chocolaty, black currant fruit, and soft as velvet, but without being cloying, due to the sweet tannins and bracing structure.",Alexis Red Table Wine,95,50.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon-Syrah,Swanson
261,US,"The cold and fog actually helped this Chardonnay, which achieves a remarkable delicacy and tartness despite the power of its fruit. Really remarkable for the flood of golden mango, Asian pear and Key lime pie richness, which is grounded by a firm minerality. Oak influence and aging on the lees lend the perfect touches of smoky, buttered toast and zesty creaminess to this dry, polished wine. A mere 587 cases were produced.",Dutton Ranch Rued Vineyard,97,50.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Dutton-Goldfield
262,US,"This distinctive Pinot Noir's source is a tiny vineyard in cool Green Valley; the winegrower is James MacPhail, whose own MacPhail Pinot Noirs are so good. The wine itself is totally dry and silky and firm in acidity, yet soft in fine tannins. You might call it noble. It's eruptive in cherries, sweet smoky bacon, raspberry granola and oaky sandalwood. Gorgeous, seductive and brilliant, a truly great Pinot Noir that's impeccable now.",Sundawg Ridge Vineyard,97,50.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Sequana
263,US,"This is a revelation. The complex and site-specific aromas suggest wild herb, lavender, lemon verbena and black olive. The tannins are supple and ripe, with no green edge at all. The fruit combines mineral-soaked black cherry, sweet raspberry compote, and deep cassis. A marvelous wine, dense, detailed and seductive.",Conner Lee Vineyard Conflict,95,50.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,J. Bookwalter
264,US,"Another great release from Sequana of this single-vineyard bottling, which hails from the golden slopes of the cool, southwestern part of the Russian River Valley. It's rich in raspberry, pomegranate and persimmon fruit, elaborated with sweet new French oak, but saved from being merely ripe by a firm minerality and brilliant acidity. Should develop interestingly over the next 10 years.",Sundawg Ridge Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Sequana
265,US,"DuBrul is perhaps the single most sought-after vineyard in the entire Yakima Valley, and at this price this Tamarack selection is an absolute steal. Pomegranate, blueberry, black cherry and cassis notes lead into a full-flavored wine that remains concise and perfectly defined. The blend is 62% Cabernet Sauvignon, 31% Merlot and 7% Cabernet Franc. This is concentrated, with earthy depths suggesting Dr. Pepper, espresso and dark chocolate.",DuBrul Vineyard Reserve Red,96,50.0,Washington,Rattlesnake Hills,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Tamarack Cellars
266,US,"A fabulously rich and approachable Pinot Noir that offers everything now, yet will also age. The considerable tannins will protect it in the cellar for a good 6–8 years, but it's so fresh and vibrant in cherries, red currants and oak-inspired red licorice that it's hard not to drink it now. Hard to exaggerate the deliciousness factor.",Southing,95,50.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sea Smoke
267,US,"This is a stunning Bordeaux-style blend of 57% Merlot, 19% Cabernet Franc and 9% Cabernet Sauvignon, with 2.5% each of Petit Verdot and Malbec. Tight, dark and dense, it showcases the detailed styling that epitomizes the Lauren Ashton portfolio. Perfectly ripe and perfectly proportioned, it has the power and tannin to age for decades.",Cuvée Arlette,95,50.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Lauren Ashton Cellars
268,US,"Classic and harmonious, a very solid Napa 100% Cabernet that's dry and firmly tannic in the mouth. Feels balanced, harmonious, ageworthy, a wine without seams or faults. Fruity, but not overly so, with the blackberries and black currants generously balanced by herbs, minerals and cedar. Very classic and noble wine, and one to cellar through at least 2018.",Stephanie,96,50.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hestan
269,US,"The most balanced of Sea Smoke's three new Pinots, Southing was aged in about two-thirds new oak, which gives rich caramel, toasted coconut and exotic spice notes to the ripe fruit flavors. The wine explodes with cherries, raspberries, mulberries and even chocolate mint, finishing long and spicy, and leaving the impression of wholesomeness and completeness. Now showing its peak of youthful vivacity, this should develop for an additional six years.",Southing,95,50.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sea Smoke
270,US,"Very powerful, very strong, almost overwhelming in the sheer wealth of fruit and oak, but balanced with acidity. Winemaker Bob Cabral himself calls it “concentrated.” It detonates on the palate with an almost dessert wine quality of lemons, pineapples, honey, vanilla and minerals, but it's totally dry. Will hold for perhaps six years.",Hawk Hill Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
271,US,"This includes grapes from Block One (the 1972 planting) and several other more recent plantings at Champoux; essentially this is pure Cabernet Sauvignon. It smells like a fine Bordeaux, still very young and tight, with well-defined layers of flavor. Black cherry, cassis, lead pencil, smoke and baking spices are tightly stacked and particularly apparent in the aromas. Give this one a decade or more in the cellar; if you are drinking now, decant for at least two hours.",Champoux Vineyard,95,50.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Januik
272,US,"A stunning Pirouette—63% Cabernet Sauvignon, 22% Merlot, 9% Cab Franc and 6% Petit Verdot. Full and magnificently rich, it is loaded with dense and thrilling fruit flavors of black cherry and cassis. A streak of iron and a hint of citrus keep the wine evolving through a long, beautifully balanced finish. Retasted after being open for 24 hours, the wine was as fresh and thrilling as on the first day.",Red Wine,98,50.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Pirouette
273,US,"Fifty bucks for Petite Sirah? You bet. It's a huge wine, black as midnight, dry and tannic, with amazingly deep, long flavors of currants, Mexican chocolate mole sauce, crême de cassis, sweet old leather, anise, pepper, cinnamon and smoky oak. Has the balanced complexity of a great Napa Cabernet Sauvignon, with Petite Sirah's classic earthiness and depth. This quintessential wine should age for at least a decade.",Barberis Family Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Petite Sirah,Madrigal
274,US,"Clos Pepe is one of those vineyards that rarely fails to dazzle, and Roessler has done as good a job at interpreting it as any of the wineries that designate its fruit. The wine shows a terrific balance of acids, oak and tannins, with an elegantly silky texture and exquisitely ripe, but controlled, cherry, pomegranate, cola, tea and Asian spice flavors that finish with a lip-smacking, chalky minerality.",Clos Pepe Vineyard,96,50.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Roessler
275,US,"A brilliant Pinot Noir from Siduri; it's arguably their best of the vintage so far. Made from the highly regarded Hirsch Vineyard, it has a delicate body that explodes with flavors of tart, wild red berries, cola, baking spices and assorted forest-like notes—like pine needles, mushrooms and mulchy undergrowth. Just gorgeous now, and it should hold and develop over the next 6-8 years.",Hirsch Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Siduri
276,US,"One for the cellar. It's vibrantly rich and forward in blackberries, black cherries, plums, dark chocolate and sweet smoky new oak, yet very tannic. Creates an astringency that lasts through the spicy finish. It would be a pity to open it before 2012, and will last for years after.",Monte Rosso Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Sonoma Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sbragia
277,US,"This late-disgorged wine has been released at the age of 11 years. It's a beautiful wine, notable especially for the ultrafine feeling of the mousse, or bubbles. So refined and silky. Rich too are the flavors, in limes, strawberries, toasty lees and minerals. A spectacular sparkling wine that has many years of development ahead.",Carneros Cuvée,95,50.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Gloria Ferrer
278,US,"This includes grapes from Block One (the 1972 planting) and several other more recent plantings at Champoux; essentially this is pure Cabernet Sauvignon. It smells like a fine Bordeaux, still very young and tight, with well-defined layers of flavor. Black cherry, cassis, lead pencil, smoke and baking spices are tightly stacked and particularly apparent in the aromas. Give this one a decade or more in the cellar; if you are drinking now, decant for at least two hours.",Champoux Vineyard,95,50.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Januik
279,US,"Made from the exotic Scheurebe grape, this is a very sweet wine, brimming with pineapple jam, ripe pear and honeysuckle flavors, with an oily, glyceriney fatness. It's balanced with crisp acidity, so the finish is dry and clean. Just delicious now with fruity desserts, vanilla cake or a buttery lemon soufflé.",Eisrébe,95,50.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Scheurebe,Joseph Phelps
280,US,"This is a focused, riveting expression of Red Mountain Syrah from a great vineyard. It's packed with juicy flavors of fresh raspberries, tinged with tangerine-flavored acids. Elegant and fascinating, it's a pure, fruit-driven expression of the grape, bolstered by the natural minerality of Ciel du Cheval fruit.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard,95,50.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Syrah,Syncline
281,US,"This distinctive Pinot Noir's source is a tiny vineyard in cool Green Valley; the winegrower is James MacPhail, whose own MacPhail Pinot Noirs are so good. The wine itself is totally dry and silky and firm in acidity, yet soft in fine tannins. You might call it noble. It's eruptive in cherries, sweet smoky bacon, raspberry granola and oaky sandalwood. Gorgeous, seductive and brilliant, a truly great Pinot Noir that's impeccable now.",Sundawg Ridge Vineyard,97,50.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Sequana
282,US,"From a vineyard east of Napa first planted in 1905, Moore is densely structured and deceptively elegant, all while maintaining an intensity of tart cherry and wild blackberry. Spicy in black pepper and a dusting of cinnamon, it remains vibrant on the palate from start to lengthy finish, a knockout among the producer's consistently high-achieving Zinfandels that should stand the test of time. Cellar through 2023.",R.W. Moore Vineyard,95,50.0,California,Coombsville,Napa,Zinfandel,Robert Biale
283,US,"A monumental Cabernet that succeeds on every level. It's deep, dark and ultrarich, showing massive blackberries, black currants, dark chocolate, violets, minerals and a touch of sweet, smoky oak. Beyond the flavors is the dramatic structure, with fabulously ripe, dense tannins and a bone-dry, long finish. Surely a tremendous wine capable of long-term aging. Try 2012–2018, at least.",Estate,97,50.0,California,Oak Knoll District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Trefethen
284,US,"A blend of 65% Merlot, 29% Cabernet Sauvignon and 6% Petit Verdot, this is slightly more open and accessible than the companion Cabernet Sauvignon, but it's clearly structured for cellaring. The plump, expressive midpalate opens generously and spreads fully across the tongue, offering notes of cherry, cassis, licorice and pepper.",Clos de Betz Red Wine,95,52.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Betz Family
285,US,"This is the grandest of Melville's current trio of '06s. It's also the most ageworthy. Fifty percent stem inclusion in the fermentation has given the wine a tannic, gritty earthiness and spiciness that throw a cloak over the underlying wine. But what a fantastic wine that is, loaded with oodles of cherries, currants and violets. Hard to exaggerate the complexity and broad intellectual appeal of this connoisseur's wine.",Estate Carrie's,95,52.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Melville
286,US,"What a wonderful Pinot Noir, a joy to sip as it warms and changes in the glass. It's a very young wine, dry, sappy and acidic, with a tremendous depth of cherry preserves, licorice, cocoa, oaky spice and something wild and mushroomy that comes from the earth. As good as it is now, it should improve for a decade.",McDougall Vineyard,95,52.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Dutton-Goldfield
287,US,"This is the grandest of Melville's current trio of '06s. It's also the most ageworthy. Fifty percent stem inclusion in the fermentation has given the wine a tannic, gritty earthiness and spiciness that throw a cloak over the underlying wine. But what a fantastic wine that is, loaded with oodles of cherries, currants and violets. Hard to exaggerate the complexity and broad intellectual appeal of this connoisseur's wine.",Estate Carrie's,95,52.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Melville
288,US,"This is the grandest of Melville's current trio of '06s. It's also the most ageworthy. Fifty percent stem inclusion in the fermentation has given the wine a tannic, gritty earthiness and spiciness that throw a cloak over the underlying wine. But what a fantastic wine that is, loaded with oodles of cherries, currants and violets. Hard to exaggerate the complexity and broad intellectual appeal of this connoisseur's wine.",Estate Carrie's,95,52.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Melville
289,US,"Big and powerful, but nuanced despite its size. It's a dark, extracted wine, filled with wild cherry, raspberry, currant and sandalwood flavors, as well as exotic notes of forest balsam, grilled mushrooms, tamari and dusty Indian spices. Super-complex, it changes with every sip, and should change interestingly over the next six years. The vineyard is in the Petaluma Gap, and argues strongly for that region's future.",Gap's Crown Vineyard,95,52.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Fulcrum
290,US,"Gorgeous and delicious, this low-production bottling is a best-of-barrels selection named for Marimar Torres's daughter. It's an exceptional wine that's compelling not only for its vivacity but also its complexity. Offers wave after wave of cherries, pomegranates, rhubarb pie, roasted coconut, red licorice, tangerine zest, sweet vanilla oak and Asian spices through a long finish.",Cristina Don Miguel Vineyard,95,52.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Marimar Estate
291,US,"Grown in the flatlands and benches of Alexander Valley, this Cab tastes more like a high mountain wine, with its firm tannins and flavor intensity. It's quite fine, showing intense blackberry, cherry, black currant, plum, cocoa and violet flavors that are tinged with soft, dry herbs. Very beautiful now for sheer charm, it will develop bottle complexities over the next decade. The best Cabernet from Hanna in memory.",Reserve,95,52.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hanna
292,US,"An awesome Pinot Noir—it's hard to find words to describe its beauty. It's bone dry and rich in stimulating acidity, and the cherry and raspberry fruit flavors have an earthy, mushroomy quality that grounds the wine and gives it a real sense of terroir. Shows the fleshy attractions of the amazing '07 vintage, with an undisputed capacity to age. Now–2017, at least.",Trenton Estate Vineyard,97,52.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Joseph Swan Vineyards
293,US,"An awesome Pinot Noir—it's hard to find words to describe its beauty. It's bone dry and rich in stimulating acidity, and the cherry and raspberry fruit flavors have an earthy, mushroomy quality that grounds the wine and gives it a real sense of terroir. Shows the fleshy attractions of the amazing '07 vintage, with an undisputed capacity to age. Now–2017, at least.",Trenton Estate Vineyard,97,52.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Joseph Swan Vineyards
294,US,"Big and powerful, but nuanced despite its size. It's a dark, extracted wine, filled with wild cherry, raspberry, currant and sandalwood flavors, as well as exotic notes of forest balsam, grilled mushrooms, tamari and dusty Indian spices. Super-complex, it changes with every sip, and should change interestingly over the next six years. The vineyard is in the Petaluma Gap, and argues strongly for that region's future.",Gap's Crown Vineyard,95,52.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Fulcrum
295,US,"Big and powerful, but nuanced despite its size. It's a dark, extracted wine, filled with wild cherry, raspberry, currant and sandalwood flavors, as well as exotic notes of forest balsam, grilled mushrooms, tamari and dusty Indian spices. Super-complex, it changes with every sip, and should change interestingly over the next six years. The vineyard is in the Petaluma Gap, and argues strongly for that region's future.",Gap's Crown Vineyard,95,52.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Fulcrum
296,US,"Combines a delicate, floral lightness with a potent intricacy to produce a wine of vast intellectual interest. Dry and somewhat tannic, and crisp in tangy acidity, this small-production Pinot features tiers of tart red cherries, rosehip tea, cola, mint, lavender, anise and pepper, edged with the honeyed sweetness of smoky, glazed oak. A tremendous achievement, and the wine of the vintage.",Carrie's,97,52.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Melville
297,US,"The first thoughts on this wine are how young it is, and how much potential it shows. The immaturity lies in the primary fruit, acidic character, like a big gulp of fruity cola. But the wine's awesome future is in its vast complexity and balance, and the way it dominates the palate and lasts and lasts. A blend of several vineyards, it's high in acidity, with massive cherry, pomegranate, rhubarb preserve, licorice, earthy mushroom and cedar flavors. So balanced and dry, so elegant and powerful, so silky and complex, it is quite simply a very great Pinot Noir, and an early indication that the vintage on the far Sonoma Coast may be the greatest ever. Tasted twice.",Maritime Vineyard,98,52.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,W.H. Smith
298,US,"Showing the art of blending, this small-production Pinot was made from the fruit of six vineyards. It is an exceptional expression of the Sonoma Coast, being translucent in color, dry, silky and crisp in acids. The flavors are complex and delicious, with berries, cherries and persimmons conjoined with mushrooms, spices and new oak. Lovely now, and should develop interestingly over the next 6–8 years.",Akiko's Cuvée,95,52.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Freeman
299,US,"A unique version of Andrew Will's Champoux, this is more than half Cabernet Franc, with Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Petit Verdot filling in the rest. Thick and tannic, yet perfectly ripe and almost silky, it coats the palate with black cherry, graphite, slate and a bit of chalk. All that said, the fruit more than holds its own against the terroir's minerality. Drink this with your best steak, and give it plenty of breathing time.",Champoux Vineyard Red Wine,95,53.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
300,US,"Enormously aromatic, endlessly complex, this is one of the best Calera Pinots. It feels full and complete, despite the elegantly light silkiness in the mouth, and the crisp acids and dusty tannins that frame cherry, cola, rhubarb, pomegranate, coffee and vanilla spice flavors. Enjoyable now, this wine thankfully strikes a different direction from today's heavy, overly ripe Pinots. Drink now through 2012.",Jensen Vineyard,95,53.0,California,Mt. Harlan,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Calera
301,US,"A unique version of Andrew Will's Champoux, this is more than half Cabernet Franc, with Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Petit Verdot filling in the rest. Thick and tannic, yet perfectly ripe and almost silky, it coats the palate with black cherry, graphite, slate and a bit of chalk. All that said, the fruit more than holds its own against the terroir's minerality. Drink this with your best steak, and give it plenty of breathing time.",Champoux Vineyard Red Wine,95,53.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
302,US,"A completely different blend from the winery's 2006 Ciel, this reflects Chris Camarda's growing enchantment with Cabernet Franc, which is now 45% of the blend. Most of the rest is Merlot—a Right Bank style. The concept works. It captures the sleek minerality of the site, and puts the fruit into tight, laser-like focus. The wine seems almost crystalline—sharp-edged and reflective, with penetrating angles and offset flavors.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard Red Wine,96,53.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
303,US,"A unique version of Andrew Will's Champoux, this is more than half Cabernet Franc, with Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Petit Verdot filling in the rest. Thick and tannic, yet perfectly ripe and almost silky, it coats the palate with black cherry, graphite, slate and a bit of chalk. All that said, the fruit more than holds its own against the terroir's minerality. Drink this with your best steak, and give it plenty of breathing time.",Champoux Vineyard Red Wine,95,53.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
304,US,"This is a great Merlot that's intensely concentrated and dazzlingly rich—everything you want a Merlot to be. It's power packed with black cherries, cherry liqueur, cocoa and sweet oak, with firm, hard tannins. That is, of course, the Nickel & Nickel style. It shows classic Oakville structure and a hard-to-define elegance, making it one of the best Merlots of the vintage.",Harris Vineyard,95,53.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Merlot,Nickel & Nickel
305,US,"A completely different blend from the winery's 2006 Ciel, this reflects Chris Camarda's growing enchantment with Cabernet Franc, which is now 45% of the blend. Most of the rest is Merlot—a Right Bank style. The concept works. It captures the sleek minerality of the site, and puts the fruit into tight, laser-like focus. The wine seems almost crystalline—sharp-edged and reflective, with penetrating angles and offset flavors.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard Red Wine,96,53.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
306,US,"A completely different blend from the winery's 2006 Ciel, this reflects Chris Camarda's growing enchantment with Cabernet Franc, which is now 45% of the blend. Most of the rest is Merlot—a Right Bank style. The concept works. It captures the sleek minerality of the site, and puts the fruit into tight, laser-like focus. The wine seems almost crystalline—sharp-edged and reflective, with penetrating angles and offset flavors.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard Red Wine,96,53.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
307,US,"The Youngs produce a stunning Cabernet from their vineyard on the eastern benchlands of the valley. This Cab is the polar opposite of Napa, and defines the alternative possibilities. Soft, intricate and herbal-earthy, it has beautiful black cherry, cocoa, tobacco and new oak flavors, and it's thoroughly dry. Drink now through 2015.",Scion,95,54.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Blend,Robert Young
308,US,"Merry Edwards has figured out the magic trick of crafting Pinot Noirs so luscious right out of the gate, you want to drink them now, but that actually are ageable. This one, from the warmer Westside Road area of the valley, is enormously ripe and seductive now, with wild cherry, red licorice, bacon, cola, cocoa and cinnamon spice flavors. Yet the inherent balance of tannins and acids ensures it a long life. What a treat. Now–2016.",Flax Vineyard Méthode a L'Ancienne,96,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
309,US,"The vineyard was made famous by Williams Selyem for fantastically rich, ageable Pinot Noirs. Now Merry Edwards has her own bottling, and it's right up there. Tastes young and grape-sappy, with jammy black cherry, cola, licorice and dusty Asian spice flavors, perfectly accented with smoky new oak. Needs time, and will develop complexities through 2012, at least.",Flax Vineyard,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
310,US,"A splendid, near-perfect Pinot, although it's very young and will benefit from time in the bottle. Few Pinots offer richer, more massive flavors. Just explodes on the palate with raspberries, cherries, persimmons, Dr. Pepper cola, mocha and cinnamon spices, yet the tannin-acid structure keeps it all balanced. A joy to drink as it warms and changes in the glass. Now–2014.",Meredith Estate,97,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
311,US,"A splendid, near-perfect Pinot, although it's very young and will benefit from time in the bottle. Few Pinots offer richer, more massive flavors. Just explodes on the palate with raspberries, cherries, persimmons, Dr. Pepper cola, mocha and cinnamon spices, yet the tannin-acid structure keeps it all balanced. A joy to drink as it warms and changes in the glass. Now–2014.",Meredith Estate,97,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
312,US,"A distinguished Pinot Noir, notable for its pure, refined structure. Although it's entirely dry, the cherry, licorice and pomegranate flavors are so rich, the wine tastes sweet. The earthiness of the soil shows up in a taste of sautéed wild mushrooms, splashed with balsamic. A brilliant wine, capable of aging for a decade. Perfect with roast lamb.",Flax Vineyard,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
313,US,"A brilliant young Pinot that magically combines instant drinkability with ageworthiness. Silky and supple, the wine has broad, deep raspberry, cherry, cola, cocoa and spice flavors that are wrapped into sweet, fine tannins, leading to a long, complicated finish. Just gorgeous from the first sniff to the last sip, and should age well through 2015.",Flax Vineyard,96,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
314,US,"The Youngs produce a stunning Cabernet from their vineyard on the eastern benchlands of the valley. This Cab is the polar opposite of Napa, and defines the alternative possibilities. Soft, intricate and herbal-earthy, it has beautiful black cherry, cocoa, tobacco and new oak flavors, and it's thoroughly dry. Drink now through 2015.",Scion,95,54.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Blend,Robert Young
315,US,"Pretty tannic, with a hard edge, although it's very fruity and rich, and should soften and mellow with time in the cellar. Thoroughly dry, it shows complex flavors of wild raspberries, cherry compote, cola and spices, compounded with smoky, sweet oak. Give it until 2011 to begin to come around.",Peay Vineyard,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
316,US,"Forward and delicious, a vibrant wine that's fully drinkable now for the richness of fruit. Shows ripe waves of black and red cherries, raspberries, cola, chocolate and crème brûlée, leading to a long, sweetly spicy finish. Seems destined to be an early drinker, so best now and through 2012.",Bucher Vineyard,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
317,US,"The winery's best Vista Verde ever. Terrific in crisp acidity and finely meshed tannins that frame ripe, rich flavors of cherry pulp, root beer, anise and oak that finish long and impressively delicious. Complex and compelling now, and will develop in the bottle over the next 6–8 years.",Vista Verde Vineyard,95,54.0,California,San Benito County,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
318,US,"Merry Edwards has figured out the magic trick of crafting Pinot Noirs so luscious right out of the gate, you want to drink them now, but that actually are ageable. This one, from the warmer Westside Road area of the valley, is enormously ripe and seductive now, with wild cherry, red licorice, bacon, cola, cocoa and cinnamon spice flavors. Yet the inherent balance of tannins and acids ensures it a long life. What a treat. Now–2016.",Flax Vineyard Méthode a L'Ancienne,96,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
319,US,"Pretty tannic, with a hard edge, although it's very fruity and rich, and should soften and mellow with time in the cellar. Thoroughly dry, it shows complex flavors of wild raspberries, cherry compote, cola and spices, compounded with smoky, sweet oak. Give it until 2011 to begin to come around.",Peay Vineyard,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
320,US,"Forward and delicious, a vibrant wine that's fully drinkable now for the richness of fruit. Shows ripe waves of black and red cherries, raspberries, cola, chocolate and crème brûlée, leading to a long, sweetly spicy finish. Seems destined to be an early drinker, so best now and through 2012.",Bucher Vineyard,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
321,US,"A splendid, near-perfect Pinot, although it's very young and will benefit from time in the bottle. Few Pinots offer richer, more massive flavors. Just explodes on the palate with raspberries, cherries, persimmons, Dr. Pepper cola, mocha and cinnamon spices, yet the tannin-acid structure keeps it all balanced. A joy to drink as it warms and changes in the glass. Now–2014.",Meredith Estate,97,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
322,US,"A brilliant young Pinot that magically combines instant drinkability with ageworthiness. Silky and supple, the wine has broad, deep raspberry, cherry, cola, cocoa and spice flavors that are wrapped into sweet, fine tannins, leading to a long, complicated finish. Just gorgeous from the first sniff to the last sip, and should age well through 2015.",Flax Vineyard,96,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
323,US,"This is a best-barrels blend whose proceeds go charity. The '05 is a blend of Silver Pines, Van der Kamp, Chris Lee and others, and it's gorgeous. Rewards for its high acid, silky feel, so light and airy, and for the intensity of cola, cherry, pomegranate, smoky vanilla cream and Asian spice flavors that last on the finish. Should pick up additional nuance for the next four years.",Auction Block,95,54.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Tandem
324,US,"The vineyard was made famous by Williams Selyem for fantastically rich, ageable Pinot Noirs. Now Merry Edwards has her own bottling, and it's right up there. Tastes young and grape-sappy, with jammy black cherry, cola, licorice and dusty Asian spice flavors, perfectly accented with smoky new oak. Needs time, and will develop complexities through 2012, at least.",Flax Vineyard,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
325,US,"The vineyard was made famous by Williams Selyem for fantastically rich, ageable Pinot Noirs. Now Merry Edwards has her own bottling, and it's right up there. Tastes young and grape-sappy, with jammy black cherry, cola, licorice and dusty Asian spice flavors, perfectly accented with smoky new oak. Needs time, and will develop complexities through 2012, at least.",Flax Vineyard,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
326,US,"This is a best-barrels blend whose proceeds go charity. The '05 is a blend of Silver Pines, Van der Kamp, Chris Lee and others, and it's gorgeous. Rewards for its high acid, silky feel, so light and airy, and for the intensity of cola, cherry, pomegranate, smoky vanilla cream and Asian spice flavors that last on the finish. Should pick up additional nuance for the next four years.",Auction Block,95,54.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Tandem
327,US,"This is a brand-new bottling from Merry Edwards. It's her first from Westside Road, which is warmer than her haunting grounds around the southern part of the valley. It's quite a promising debut. The wine is round, soft, charming and complex, with elaborate cherry, blackberry, licorice and cola flavors. It feels important and ageworthy. Drink now, with several hours of decanting, or cellar through 2020.",Georganne,95,54.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
328,US,"The winery's best Vista Verde ever. Terrific in crisp acidity and finely meshed tannins that frame ripe, rich flavors of cherry pulp, root beer, anise and oak that finish long and impressively delicious. Complex and compelling now, and will develop in the bottle over the next 6–8 years.",Vista Verde Vineyard,95,54.0,California,San Benito County,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
329,US,"The vineyard is in Fulton, a cool part of the southeastern valley heavily influenced by fog, and the vines are about 100 years old. This is great, classic Zinfandel. It should be in a museum. Despite high alcohol, it has a silky, Pinot-esque suppleness, balanced with crisp acids, and is profoundly rich in Zinny flavor. Currants, mushu plum sauce, anise, crushed black pepper, dark chocolate and rich Asian spices last forever on the finish.",Highwire Vineyard,96,55.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Hartford
330,US,"Strong's Symmetry almost qualifies as a Cabernet Sauvignon, with 71% of that variety, and the rest consisting of Merlot, Malbec and Petit Verdot. The Meritage labeling identifies it as their supreme bottling of a Bordeaux-style wine. Easily the best Symmetry ever, it is a great wine. Dry and somewhat astringent in tannins, it has an impressively deep core of blackberries and currants, with an array of sweet herbs, chocolate and tobacco. It's delicious now, and should slowly develop bottle complexities over the next 10 years.",Symmetry Meritage,95,55.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Rodney Strong
331,US,"Marvelously fragrant, with seductive scents of cherries, rocks and chocolate, which, along with the astonishing color saturation, suggest a wine of immense power. The 80% Cabernet Sauvignon, 20% Cabernet Franc blend shows perfect ripeness with flavors of rock and acid preserved. This wine has it all—depth, blue and purple fruits, polished tannins—and probably a 25-year lifespan.",Champoux Vineyard Red,97,55.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Buty
332,US,"Strong's Symmetry almost qualifies as a Cabernet Sauvignon, with 71% of that variety, and the rest consisting of Merlot, Malbec and Petit Verdot. The Meritage labeling identifies it as their supreme bottling of a Bordeaux-style wine. Easily the best Symmetry ever, it is a great wine. Dry and somewhat astringent in tannins, it has an impressively deep core of blackberries and currants, with an array of sweet herbs, chocolate and tobacco. It's delicious now, and should slowly develop bottle complexities over the next 10 years.",Symmetry Meritage,95,55.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Rodney Strong
333,US,"Chardonnay doesn't get much riper or richer than this. Dazzles with pear jam, pineapple custard, crème brûlée, buttered toast and cinnamon spice flavors, and a firm grounding of minerals. Calls for the richest possible foods, like lobster. Drink now.",Courtney's Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Two Sisters
334,US,"Incredible fruit intensity. Cranberry, pomegranate and cherry meet rock, gravel and pepper. Lovely focus and purity; it's concentrated and tight, with a minerality that is compelling and distinctive. The best yet from Cailloux. Syrah is co-fermented with 4 or 5% Viognier.  It's a world-class effort, still quite young and tight, but built for beautiful aging.",Cailloux Vineyard,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Cayuse
335,US,"Just gorgeous, an absolutely wonderful Pinot Noir to drink. Fully dry and crisp in coastal acidity, it shows rich, complex flavors of cherries, red currants and mocha, with a grounding, earthy animality suggesting grilled mushrooms and beef jerky. Beautiful now, and should gradually improve for a decade.",Four Boys Vineyard,96,55.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Pessagno
336,US,"A best-of-barrels selection from the winery's various vineyards, this is a lush, intricate Chardonnay made in the modern style. It's fantastically rich in pineapple tart flavors, with the sweet, smoky crust, and more acidic citrus notes of Meyer lemons and limes. Oak aging and lees add fortunate layers of buttered toast and cream. Very intricate, with Chablisian dryness and minerality. Now–2014.",Diana's,95,55.0,California,Central Coast,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Testarossa
337,US,"Extraordinarily rich, a tremendous Syrah from this unique vineyard in the heart of the valley. Black in color and bone dry, it explodes in concentrated blackberry, blueberry, cassis, mocha, pepper and sandalwood flavors, but even more impressive is the tannic structure: so soft, intricate and silky. Wonderful with spicy pork and beef dishes.",Purisima Mountain Vineyard Block 6,95,55.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Syrah,Beckmen
338,US,"This is one of the sweetest white California dessert wines out there. It's addictively decadent, like an upscale Sauternes. Barrel fermentation in new French oak gives an opulent, palate-flattering honeyed vanilla richness to the apricot, peach, pineapple and crème brûlée flavors that are so rich and refined. Crisp acidity provide clean, vibrant balance. Just gorgeous, and worth the price.",Botrytised,95,55.0,California,Chalk Hill,Sonoma,Sémillon,Chalk Hill
339,US,"Violets and compost dance through the aromas, leading into an intensely fruity palate loaded with sappy berry richness, nuanced with scents and streaks of cured meat, garrigue, earth and graphite. Blending 77% Syrah with 23% Cabernet Sauvignon, it strikes a perfect balance among fruit, earth, and rock. At its core it is still wrapped tight, immaculately clean, and still almost impenetrably dense.",Rediviva of the Stones Red,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Buty
340,US,"Extraordinarily rich, a tremendous Syrah from this unique vineyard in the heart of the valley. Black in color and bone dry, it explodes in concentrated blackberry, blueberry, cassis, mocha, pepper and sandalwood flavors, but even more impressive is the tannic structure: so soft, intricate and silky. Wonderful with spicy pork and beef dishes.",Purisima Mountain Vineyard Block 6,95,55.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Syrah,Beckmen
341,US,"The Conflict red is a mash-up of 38% Cabernet Sauvignon, 37% Merlot, 25% Cabernet Franc, and it's a crowd-pleaser from the instant the cork is pulled. Dense scents of cherry, roasty-toasty barrel and cracker are inviting. The grapes were sourced entirely from the Conner Lee Vineyard. This effort showcases the winery's signature style, with notes of black fruits, exotic spices, coffee grounds and dark chocolate. Drink now or cellar for 6–8 years.",Conner Lee Vineyard Conflict Red,96,55.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,J. Bookwalter
342,US,"Marvelously fragrant, with seductive scents of cherries, rocks and chocolate, which, along with the astonishing color saturation, suggest a wine of immense power. The 80% Cabernet Sauvignon, 20% Cabernet Franc blend shows perfect ripeness with flavors of rock and acid preserved. This wine has it all—depth, blue and purple fruits, polished tannins—and probably a 25-year lifespan.",Champoux Vineyard Red,97,55.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Buty
343,US,"Incredible fruit intensity. Cranberry, pomegranate and cherry meet rock, gravel and pepper. Lovely focus and purity; it's concentrated and tight, with a minerality that is compelling and distinctive. The best yet from Cailloux. Syrah is co-fermented with 4 or 5% Viognier.  It's a world-class effort, still quite young and tight, but built for beautiful aging.",Cailloux Vineyard,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Cayuse
344,US,"If you know Goldeneye's new Gowen Creek bottling, this is a near identical Pinot, and little wonder, for the vineyards are right next to each other. This wine dazzles with exotic, feral notes of wild blackberries and blueberries, and forest scents of pine needle, roasted mushroom, grilled meat, chocolate, anise, cinnamon, nutmeg and coriander. New oak adds even richer nuances of smoky caramel and vanilla to this compelling wine.",Savoy Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Breggo
345,US,"This is darn near perfect, a matchless expression of berries, dotted with chocolate, vanilla and butterscotch. The berry flavors, highlighted with crisp acids, strike a pure note and ring true over a long, long finish. The blend is 40% Merlot, 37% Cab Franc, 19% Cabernet Sauvignon and 4% Petit Verdot. Great concentration, finesse and length.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard Red Wine,95,55.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Andrew Will
346,US,"There is a leafy, herbal component to this estate-grown Cabernet Sauvigon, plus suggestions of fresh-cut tobacco and black tea. Aromatic and inviting, the wine also offers a subtle moist-earth note under the ripe, rich flavor of black fruit. Delicious and beautifully structured, this is for aging over the next 5–10 years.",Heather Hill,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Abeja
347,US,"The fragrance is almost otherworldly; sweet, dense and lightly lifted. This is a sinewy wine, that begins with compact power and focused, tart red fruits—predominantly raspberry and currant. At first juicy and tart, with hours of breathing time the wine broadens out into a wider spectrum of Cabernet fruits; cassis, blackberry and black cherry.",Père de Famille,97,55.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
348,US,"The vineyard is in Fulton, a cool part of the southeastern valley heavily influenced by fog, and the vines are about 100 years old. This is great, classic Zinfandel. It should be in a museum. Despite high alcohol, it has a silky, Pinot-esque suppleness, balanced with crisp acids, and is profoundly rich in Zinny flavor. Currants, mushu plum sauce, anise, crushed black pepper, dark chocolate and rich Asian spices last forever on the finish.",Highwire Vineyard,96,55.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Hartford
349,US,"This is darn near perfect, a matchless expression of berries, dotted with chocolate, vanilla and butterscotch. The berry flavors, highlighted with crisp acids, strike a pure note and ring true over a long, long finish. The blend is 40% Merlot, 37% Cab Franc, 19% Cabernet Sauvignon and 4% Petit Verdot. Great concentration, finesse and length.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard Red Wine,95,55.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Andrew Will
350,US,"A best-of-barrels selection from the winery's various vineyards, this is a lush, intricate Chardonnay made in the modern style. It's fantastically rich in pineapple tart flavors, with the sweet, smoky crust, and more acidic citrus notes of Meyer lemons and limes. Oak aging and lees add fortunate layers of buttered toast and cream. Very intricate, with Chablisian dryness and minerality. Now–2014.",Diana's,95,55.0,California,Central Coast,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Testarossa
351,US,"Extraordinarily rich, a tremendous Syrah from this unique vineyard in the heart of the valley. Black in color and bone dry, it explodes in concentrated blackberry, blueberry, cassis, mocha, pepper and sandalwood flavors, but even more impressive is the tannic structure: so soft, intricate and silky. Wonderful with spicy pork and beef dishes.",Purisima Mountain Vineyard Block 6,95,55.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Syrah,Beckmen
352,US,"The vineyard is in Fulton, a cool part of the southeastern valley heavily influenced by fog, and the vines are about 100 years old. This is great, classic Zinfandel. It should be in a museum. Despite high alcohol, it has a silky, Pinot-esque suppleness, balanced with crisp acids, and is profoundly rich in Zinny flavor. Currants, mushu plum sauce, anise, crushed black pepper, dark chocolate and rich Asian spices last forever on the finish.",Highwire Vineyard,96,55.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Hartford
353,US,"Violets and compost dance through the aromas, leading into an intensely fruity palate loaded with sappy berry richness, nuanced with scents and streaks of cured meat, garrigue, earth and graphite. Blending 77% Syrah with 23% Cabernet Sauvignon, it strikes a perfect balance among fruit, earth, and rock. At its core it is still wrapped tight, immaculately clean, and still almost impenetrably dense.",Rediviva of the Stones Red,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Buty
354,US,"Spectactular Chardonnay, so pure, clean and delicious. Defines the cool coastal climate of the Sonoma Coast, with brilliant, citrusy acidity brightening long hangtime flavors of tropical fruits, green apples and succulent peaches and pears. A stunningly good, upscale Chard to drink with very rich fare, such as ricotta cheese-filled gnocchi with grilled rock shrimp and Parmesan cheese.",Charles Heintz Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Migration
355,US,"This is co-fermented Old Stones Vineyard and Cailloux Vineyard Cabernet Sauvignon (60%) and Syrah (40%), showing the funk of the terroir and less of the varietal character of the fruit. It's flavorful and textural, with earth, anise and smoke notes, plus a mineral-driven wet-stone base and exceptional length.",The Creator,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon-Syrah,K Vintners
356,US,"Marvelously fragrant, with seductive scents of cherries, rocks and chocolate, which, along with the astonishing color saturation, suggest a wine of immense power. The 80% Cabernet Sauvignon, 20% Cabernet Franc blend shows perfect ripeness with flavors of rock and acid preserved. This wine has it all—depth, blue and purple fruits, polished tannins—and probably a 25-year lifespan.",Champoux Vineyard Red,97,55.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Buty
357,US,"Toasty, dense, dark and complex, this is suffused with a complex mix of coffee, earth, butterscotch, cherry and mineral, with an underlayer of game, roasted almond, herb and earth. Still a baby, young and tight, it opens out with decanting, turning silky and supple. The balance is impeccable, and herbal nuances are preserved, despite the 14.7% alcohol.",La Serenne,95,55.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Betz Family
358,US,"This is darn near perfect, a matchless expression of berries, dotted with chocolate, vanilla and butterscotch. The berry flavors, highlighted with crisp acids, strike a pure note and ring true over a long, long finish. The blend is 40% Merlot, 37% Cab Franc, 19% Cabernet Sauvignon and 4% Petit Verdot. Great concentration, finesse and length.",Ciel du Cheval Vineyard Red Wine,95,55.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Andrew Will
359,US,"Violets and compost dance through the aromas, leading into an intensely fruity palate loaded with sappy berry richness, nuanced with scents and streaks of cured meat, garrigue, earth and graphite. Blending 77% Syrah with 23% Cabernet Sauvignon, it strikes a perfect balance among fruit, earth, and rock. At its core it is still wrapped tight, immaculately clean, and still almost impenetrably dense.",Rediviva of the Stones Red,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Buty
360,US,"Chardonnay doesn't get much riper or richer than this. Dazzles with pear jam, pineapple custard, crème brûlée, buttered toast and cinnamon spice flavors, and a firm grounding of minerals. Calls for the richest possible foods, like lobster. Drink now.",Courtney's Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Two Sisters
361,US,"This wine could easily be mistaken for French Chablis. It's notable for the tight, nervous feeling that acidity and minerals combine to stimulate, and the finish is very dry. There is, fortunately, a great heart of sweet tropical fruit, like the purest golden mango purée, ripe and succulent and honeyed. Terrific now, but such is the balance that this could be one of those Chardonnays that changes in interesting ways over the next 5–6 years.",Quail Hill Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Lynmar
362,US,"A new bottling from the winery. The vineyard is in the Petaluma Gap, a cool area south of the Russian River Valley, toward San Francisco. The vintage was cool, too, so the wine is brisk in acidity and low in alcohol, but it still tastes amazingly ripe and complex. The wine dazzles with waves of black raspberry jam, sweet olive tapenade, sautéed brown mushroom, root beer, moo-shu plum sauce and mocha. If those flavors sound like they don't go together, just try the wine. It's seamless and compelling. Drink now–2020.",Terra de Promissio Vineyard,96,55.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
363,US,"There is a leafy, herbal component to this estate-grown Cabernet Sauvigon, plus suggestions of fresh-cut tobacco and black tea. Aromatic and inviting, the wine also offers a subtle moist-earth note under the ripe, rich flavor of black fruit. Delicious and beautifully structured, this is for aging over the next 5–10 years.",Heather Hill,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Abeja
364,US,"This Cabernet is a blend of estate and purchased fruit. In a successful year, it rivals Stag's Leap's best wines, including Cask 23, and 2008 was a very successful year. Blended with 2% Merlot, and aged in lots of new French oak, the wine is, in a word, stunning. Rich, flashy blackberry and dark chocolate flavors are anchored by an earthiness suggesting cured olives and dried herbs. Delicious now, this beauty should develop additional complexities throughout the decade.",Artemis,95,55.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stag's Leap Wine Cellars
365,US,"Incredible fruit intensity. Cranberry, pomegranate and cherry meet rock, gravel and pepper. Lovely focus and purity; it's concentrated and tight, with a minerality that is compelling and distinctive. The best yet from Cailloux. Syrah is co-fermented with 4 or 5% Viognier.  It's a world-class effort, still quite young and tight, but built for beautiful aging.",Cailloux Vineyard,95,55.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Cayuse
366,US,"This is a sensational vintage for this cuvée, which is part of the winery's extensive Chardonnay lineup. It offers intense fruit concentration and retains the opulence for which the winery is known. Rich in a buttered, toasted nut flavor, the mouthfeel is creamy and sensual. The finish lingers for several minutes, and the wine drinks as well or better on the second day it's been open.",Evenstad Reserve,95,55.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Domaine Serene
367,US,"This classic Chardonnay brims in lemon chiffon, stony minerality and luscious pear. The complex, soft, supple layers continue to surprise in the glass, teasing the palate with unexpected notes of nutmeg and Tahitian vanilla.",Allen Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
368,US,"An enormous Cabernet, but it's not simply the power of its fruit that's so impressive. Shows massive blackberry, blueberry, crème de cassis and oak flavors packed into profoundly beautiful tannins. The fruit is so sweet that it's surprising how dry the finish is. The winemaker, Ted Henry, also is at the helm of Jarvis. This young Cabernet should develop over the next dozen years, at least, in a good cellar.",Midoriya Hills Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Prime
369,US,"This is one of the sweetest white California dessert wines out there. It's addictively decadent, like an upscale Sauternes. Barrel fermentation in new French oak gives an opulent, palate-flattering honeyed vanilla richness to the apricot, peach, pineapple and crème brûlée flavors that are so rich and refined. Crisp acidity provide clean, vibrant balance. Just gorgeous, and worth the price.",Botrytised,95,55.0,California,Chalk Hill,Sonoma,Sémillon,Chalk Hill
370,US,"Chardonnay doesn't get much riper or richer than this. Dazzles with pear jam, pineapple custard, crème brûlée, buttered toast and cinnamon spice flavors, and a firm grounding of minerals. Calls for the richest possible foods, like lobster. Drink now.",Courtney's Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Two Sisters
371,US,"A best-of-barrels selection from the winery's various vineyards, this is a lush, intricate Chardonnay made in the modern style. It's fantastically rich in pineapple tart flavors, with the sweet, smoky crust, and more acidic citrus notes of Meyer lemons and limes. Oak aging and lees add fortunate layers of buttered toast and cream. Very intricate, with Chablisian dryness and minerality. Now–2014.",Diana's,95,55.0,California,Central Coast,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Testarossa
372,US,"This full-bodied wine has a treasure trove of flavor complexity and great balance. The color is a deep red with an auburn rim. Aromas present a fascinating medley of cherry, black tea, rhubarb and pine forest, while the flavors weave together ripe Bing cherry, crisp raspberry and subtle Asian spices. It's delicious, and best to drink after 2017.",Deer Meadows Vineyard,95,55.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Waits-Mast
373,US,"So delicious, so dazzlingly seductive, it's impossible not to fall in love with this wine. It detonates on the palate with an explosion of cherries and raspberries, and wonderfully smoky, buttery complexities from oak. Drily crisp and finely structured in smooth, dense tannins, it offers great pleasure now, and should develop over the next 6–8 years. Production was low, but it's worth a search.",Doctor's Vineyard,95,56.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Testarossa
374,US,"This tremendous Syrah is one for the cellar. It's explosive in flavor, offering a mouthblast of peppery blackberries, roasted meat, red licorice, pomegranates and smoky cedar. There are even suggestions of dark chocolate, cassis and minerals as well as sweetness, although it's absolutely dry. It has the most beautiful tannin-acid balance that launches it into classic territory. This superlative Syrah, among the greatest in California, should hit its stride after 2010.",Estate Vineyard,96,56.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Syrah,Failla
375,US,"This wine is as fine as anything from Santa Rita Hills. Although it's young and tight now, its future is assured by the brilliant combination of audacious fruit and classic structure. The blackberry, currant, cherry, anise and clove flavors are wrapped into rich, silky tannins, and brightened with crisp acidity. Best now, with decanting, and for the next 6–8 years.",Fe Ciega Vineyard,96,56.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Ojai
376,US,"A sip is all it takes to fall in love with this potent Pinot Noir. Big tannins and crisp acidity make it hard to appreciate now, but there's a gigantic core of cherries and raspberries, with a firm minerality from the soil. Will develop bottle complexity over the years. Don't even think of popping the cork before 2015.",Flax Vineyard,95,56.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
377,US,"Williams Selyem's best Weir ever. Shows vast richness of flavor, with a flood of wild red berry currant, cherry pie, Dr. Pepper, Asian spice and smoky oak flavors, with hints of roasted meat and mocha. Yet it displays gorgeous structure. The tannins are as refined as anything in California. Great now, and should evolve for a decade in a cool cellar.",Weir Vineyard,96,56.0,California,Yorkville Highlands,North Coast,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
378,US,"This wine is as fine as anything from Santa Rita Hills. Although it's young and tight now, its future is assured by the brilliant combination of audacious fruit and classic structure. The blackberry, currant, cherry, anise and clove flavors are wrapped into rich, silky tannins, and brightened with crisp acidity. Best now, with decanting, and for the next 6–8 years.",Fe Ciega Vineyard,96,56.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Ojai
379,US,"Amazingly rich, offering deep, complex layers of cherries, black raspberries, cola, anise biscotti, pomegranates, persimmons, black tea, orange zest, mushrooms, you name it, but don't forget the spices, everything from cloves and black pepper to cinnamon. Utterly delicious, with a silky, briskly clean mouthfeel. But the tannins are pronounced. They're not so strong as to lock the wine down, but do suggest time in the cellar. Give it four years, and it could be wonderful after 10 or more.",Klopp Ranch,98,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
380,US,"Here's a Pinot to put into your cellar. That's if you can keep from opening it now and savoring the deep, spicy flavors that are so captivating. Offers up layers of cherries, cola, pomegranates, mushrooms, Indian spices and minerals, not to mention a deft touch of sweet, smoky oak. Wonderful tannins and brisk acidity provide balancing structure to the richness. The finish is long. Drink anytime from now through 2017.",Meredith Estate,96,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
381,US,"This vineyard has been source to some of the winery's greatest bottlings. The wine is enormously fruity, with raspberry, cherry and red-plum flavors that flood the palate. But it's no mere fruit bomb, offering the most wonderful tannin-acid structure and a dryness that keeps the wine stimulating through a long, spicy finish. Drinkable now, but also cellar worthy through 2018, at least.",Klopp Ranch,95,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
382,US,"Made in the Merry Edwards style, which is powerfully ripe and extracted, yet always balanced. Dazzles with enormous cherry pie filling, cola, sassafras, beef jerky, raspberry tart, anise, pepper and smoky cedar flavors that finish with amazing length. Yet the tannin-acid structure is superb, and the wine is totally dry. Beautiful now, and should age through 2012.",Klopp Ranch,96,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
383,US,"This is an amazingly complex wine and a fine expression of the cool vintage. Perhaps the most notable feature is acidity; it's strong, almost tingly, and will certainly help the wine age. The flavors are explosive yet refined, with notes of cherries, cola, pomegranates and plums. Good as it is to drink now, you'll want to cellar it until 2018, and it will provide beauty for many additional years.",Meredith Estate,95,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
384,US,"Made in the Merry Edwards style, which is powerfully ripe and extracted, yet always balanced. Dazzles with enormous cherry pie filling, cola, sassafras, beef jerky, raspberry tart, anise, pepper and smoky cedar flavors that finish with amazing length. Yet the tannin-acid structure is superb, and the wine is totally dry. Beautiful now, and should age through 2012.",Klopp Ranch,96,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
385,US,"An awesome wine. So delicious and complex now in wild cherry, raspberry, Dr. Pepper cola, bacon and smoky sandalwood flavors, brightened with crisp acidity and totally dry despite the fruitiness. But you'll also find a firm tannic structure that gives it some astringency. It's the kind of Pinot Noir that California does at its best, drinkable now for sheer beauty, but easily capable of a decade of aging.",Klopp Ranch Méthode a L'Ancienne,96,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
386,US,"Made in the Merry Edwards style, which is powerfully ripe and extracted, yet always balanced. Dazzles with enormous cherry pie filling, cola, sassafras, beef jerky, raspberry tart, anise, pepper and smoky cedar flavors that finish with amazing length. Yet the tannin-acid structure is superb, and the wine is totally dry. Beautiful now, and should age through 2012.",Klopp Ranch,96,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
387,US,"An awesome wine. So delicious and complex now in wild cherry, raspberry, Dr. Pepper cola, bacon and smoky sandalwood flavors, brightened with crisp acidity and totally dry despite the fruitiness. But you'll also find a firm tannic structure that gives it some astringency. It's the kind of Pinot Noir that California does at its best, drinkable now for sheer beauty, but easily capable of a decade of aging.",Klopp Ranch Méthode a L'Ancienne,96,57.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
388,US,"This is taut, muscular, toasty, young and tight; the fruit is concentrated, pure and evocative, with earthy flavors that add notes of soil, spice and mineral. The most complex of all the Betz blends, in this vintage it includes 84% Cabernet Sauvignon—far and away the dominant flavor. The fruits unfold in a rich panoply of reds and blues; the tannins are rich and chewy, polished and complex, showing exemplary back of the palate grip and concentration.",Père de Famille,96,58.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
389,US,"An extraordinary Syrah, from Ciel du Cheval grapes. It's supple and silky, yet retains classic fresh raspberry, cherry and boysenberry fruit that's bright and crisply defined by natural acids. The panoply of flavors is seamlessly woven into chocolaty tannins, with a final kick of gravelly minerality.",Annie Camarda,95,58.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Syrah,Andrew Will
390,US,"This beautiful wine further confirms the high level of quality in the Pinot Noirs from Dan Goldfield and Steve Dutton. It has a profusion of ripe black cherry and currant flavors, backed by firm acidity and fine-grained tannins, giving it grip. Its balance of concentrated fruit flavors and solid structure indicates a long life in the cellar. Best after 2020.",Angel Camp Vineyard,95,58.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Dutton-Goldfield
391,US,"Extraordinary for how drinkable it is right now, and for how it will evolve. Shows the crisp acidity and minerality of this cool-climate vineyard, with rich flavors of raspberries, cherry liqueur, cola, exotic spices, vanilla, buttered cinnamon toast and smoky sandalwood. Yet the tannic integrity should help it change in fascinating ways over the next six years. Decant for several hours.",Dutton Ranch Freestone Hill Vineyard,95,58.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Dutton-Goldfield
392,US,"Extraordinary for how drinkable it is right now, and for how it will evolve. Shows the crisp acidity and minerality of this cool-climate vineyard, with rich flavors of raspberries, cherry liqueur, cola, exotic spices, vanilla, buttered cinnamon toast and smoky sandalwood. Yet the tannic integrity should help it change in fascinating ways over the next six years. Decant for several hours.",Dutton Ranch Freestone Hill Vineyard,95,58.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Dutton-Goldfield
393,US,"This is taut, muscular, toasty, young and tight; the fruit is concentrated, pure and evocative, with earthy flavors that add notes of soil, spice and mineral. The most complex of all the Betz blends, in this vintage it includes 84% Cabernet Sauvignon—far and away the dominant flavor. The fruits unfold in a rich panoply of reds and blues; the tannins are rich and chewy, polished and complex, showing exemplary back of the palate grip and concentration.",Père de Famille,96,58.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
394,US,"This is taut, muscular, toasty, young and tight; the fruit is concentrated, pure and evocative, with earthy flavors that add notes of soil, spice and mineral. The most complex of all the Betz blends, in this vintage it includes 84% Cabernet Sauvignon—far and away the dominant flavor. The fruits unfold in a rich panoply of reds and blues; the tannins are rich and chewy, polished and complex, showing exemplary back of the palate grip and concentration.",Père de Famille,96,58.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
395,US,"For sheer voluptuous pleasure, this is one of Williams Sel-yem's best 2010s. It just floods the mouth with flavors of raspberry and cherry Pop-Tarts, with the most wonderful array of spices and a tender use of oak. Hard to keep from drinking it now, but it should age well over the next 8–10 years.",Bucher Vineyard,95,58.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
396,US,"Smoky clove and rose petal aromas underlie a delicately complex fruitiness in this wine, its cranberry and pomegranate flavors complemented by cardamon, dried herb and savory black tea. Light-bodied and fresh, it offers an indelible silkiness on the palate.",Foss Vineyard,95,58.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
397,US,"This is ageable and enormously complex, and should do very interesting things over the next six years. Right now it is tight and fresh in primary fruits and acidity. It's an enormously rich wine, vast in black cherries, pomegranates, cola, red plums, balsam and sautéed mushroom flavors, with a gamy, forest-floor earthiness. Time in the bottle can only improve it through 2011.",Dutton Ranch Freestone Hill Vineyard,96,58.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Dutton-Goldfield
398,US,"Sheer opulence is the hallmark of this wine. Call it feminine in its soft silkiness, and the way the raspberry, cherry and sandalwood flavors caress the palate. Yet there's a firmness of structure, a stony, minerally quality that lends power and authority. Great now, and will develop in the bottle for the next 6–8 years.",Rincon Vineyard,95,58.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Talley
399,US,"An extraordinary Syrah, from Ciel du Cheval grapes. It's supple and silky, yet retains classic fresh raspberry, cherry and boysenberry fruit that's bright and crisply defined by natural acids. The panoply of flavors is seamlessly woven into chocolaty tannins, with a final kick of gravelly minerality.",Annie Camarda,95,58.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Syrah,Andrew Will
400,US,"Extraordinary for how drinkable it is right now, and for how it will evolve. Shows the crisp acidity and minerality of this cool-climate vineyard, with rich flavors of raspberries, cherry liqueur, cola, exotic spices, vanilla, buttered cinnamon toast and smoky sandalwood. Yet the tannic integrity should help it change in fascinating ways over the next six years. Decant for several hours.",Dutton Ranch Freestone Hill Vineyard,95,58.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Dutton-Goldfield
401,US,"This is beautifully lilting in preciously defined aromas of rose petal and wild strawberry. From there, it's all subtlety and ethereal elegance. The wine is restrained, nurtured in a basket of nutmeg and graham cracker, as well as freshly packed mushroomy earth. This wine is a stunner right out of the glass, but is sure to continue its fine course through 2022–2025.",Bucher Vineyard,97,59.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
402,US,"Even in its extreme youth, this lovely Pinot shows a supple elegance that's almost drinkable now. Almost, but not quite. The tannins are ripe and smooth but thick, and the young raspberry, cherry and tangerine fruit needs time to develop and mesh with the oak. But it's a beautiful wine, Williams Selyem's best Ferrington in memory, and a near-perfect expression of Anderson Valley Pinot Noir. Hold until late 2008.",Ferrington Vineyard,95,59.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
403,US,"This is Woodward Canyon's reserve—the best lots of Cabernet Franc, Petit Verdot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot create this very limited wine. It is built to age, and reflects the tight and muscular style that Rick Small has developed over the years. There is a strong mineral-metal vein running through the black and blue fruits, and some very lively spicy highlights. Tannins are ripe but firm, and this is a wine that will benefit from further cellaring.",Estate Red Wine,95,59.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Woodward Canyon
404,US,"Even in its extreme youth, this lovely Pinot shows a supple elegance that's almost drinkable now. Almost, but not quite. The tannins are ripe and smooth but thick, and the young raspberry, cherry and tangerine fruit needs time to develop and mesh with the oak. But it's a beautiful wine, Williams Selyem's best Ferrington in memory, and a near-perfect expression of Anderson Valley Pinot Noir. Hold until late 2008.",Ferrington Vineyard,95,59.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
405,US,"Rutherford Hill has specialized in Merlot for decades, and their Reserve bottling is always one of the best. This 2007 is right up there, rich, dense and opulent. It shows massive blackberry, cherry, blueberry, anise and cedar flavors, wrapped into a fine tannin-acid structure, and the finish is dry. Perfect with the best steak you can find.",Reserve,95,59.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Merlot,Rutherford Hill
406,US,"This is an astonishingly good Pinot Noir that immediately shows the Sonoma Coast virtues of dryness, acidity, firm minerality, complexity and age worthiness. Flavors abound, with dominating notes of sour cherry, persimmon, cinnamon spice and sweet oak. It's rich and refined, pure, and a great expression of the cool 2010 vintage. Drink now–2020.",Occidental Ridge Vineyard,97,60.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Failla
407,US,"This 100% Viognier was grown in the Bien Nacido Vineyard. It's bone dry, crisp in acidity and firm in wet stone minerals, while the rich fruit flavors suggest fresh, juicy citron, quince and sweet lime. Just wonderful, a bracing, pure, clean and pure example of a variety that can often be fussy.",Fractured Flowers,95,60.0,California,California,California Other,Viognier,Sanguis
408,US,"This is Etude's inaugural bottling of this wine, a block designation from the estate. It shows not only classic Carneros quality, but something exotic. Dry and complex, the wine has cherry, cassis, raspberry and new oak flavors, with good acidity. That extra something is a feral, earthy quality, suggesting olive tapenade, sweet leather, tobacco and mushrooms that has got to come from terroir. Youthfully great now, and should age effortlessly for the next 8 to 10 years.",Temblor,95,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
409,US,"It's easy to get ripe fruit in California and then plaster it in oak, but what's so difficult to achieve is the crisp, minerally structure this wine displays. It's rich in pineapple cream, Key lime pie, Meyer lemon sorbet, golden mango and vanilla oak flavors, but achieves balanced elegance with crisp acidity and a wonderful stony purity. Only 349 cases produced.",Proprietress Reserve,95,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Chardonnay,Vine Cliff
410,US,"The vineyard is in the interior part of the appellation, toward Carneros, and the wine displays the firm, acidic minerality of that cool, foggy region. It has fantastic limpidity. The oak is remarkable for the purity of vanilla and smoky honey, while the underlying flavors of Meyer lemons, pineapples, nectarines and kumquats are decadently good. A masterpiece of Chardonnay.",Stone Côte Vineyard,96,60.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Hartford Court
411,US,"Acidic and tight now, a young wine that's clearly not ready for current drinking. It needs time to knit together and mellow. But such is the balance of all the parts that it should easily negotiate through at least 2015, when the cherries, berries, cola, bacon, earth, exotic spices and sweet oak should meld. An exciting, promising Pinot Noir.",Occidental Ridge Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Failla
412,US,"This has been one of Etude's best bottlings, and 2007 was a great year. If you enjoy sheer, decadent deliciousness in your Pinot Noirs, this is one for you. The palate first is struck by the rich waves of cherry pie filling, raspberry essence and sweet, vanilla-tinged, smoky oak. Then it discovers the soft silkiness, and finally the firm, fine tannins kick in, providing structure. Just beguiling, and should develop in the bottle over the next 5–6 years.",Deer Camp,95,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
413,US,"The best Cara Mia yet, this is Red Mountain Cabernet Franc from the estate vineyard, with 15% Merlot and 8% Petit Verdot included. Stylish and compact, this seems sculpted with pure, vivid purple fruits, balanced against crisp, fine-grained tannins. The depth and concentration are noteworthy.",Cara Mia Vineyard Bel Canto,95,60.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Cadence
414,US,"This wine's aromas are perfectly pretty but with a sharp edge, blending tight boysenberry, raspberry and red-apple with lilac and scarlet-red rose-petal florality and an anise-peppercorn spice. The palate is full, soft and yet focused, with dried strawberry, plum and red cherries giving way to pencil lead and sage.",Block Q Old Vine Bien Nacido Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Scar of the Sea
415,US,"This delicious blend is 70% Cabernet Sauvignon and 30% Syrah, sourced from the Old Stones vineyard. Young, tight and peppery, it gains briary boysenberry flavors as it opens up, along with hints of soy and umami. A streak of maple syrup richness fills out the finish.",The Creator Old Stones,96,60.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon-Syrah,K Vintners
416,US,"If you had to choose one Zinfandel to showcase Dry Creek Valley, it's this one. The vines are said to be over 100 years of age. Just superb. Has the balance and depth of a fine Cabernet Sauvignon, but with Zin's spicy, briary, brambly personality. Erupts in wild berry, currant, cola, leather, mocha and peppery spice flavors that are so rich and deep and long-lasting. Pricey, but sets a benchmark for Zinfandel. Only 550 cases were produced.",Buchignani-Garcia Vineyard Old Vine Reserve,95,60.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Deerfield
417,US,"This delicious blend is 70% Cabernet Sauvignon and 30% Syrah, sourced from the Old Stones vineyard. Young, tight and peppery, it gains briary boysenberry flavors as it opens up, along with hints of soy and umami. A streak of maple syrup richness fills out the finish.",The Creator Old Stones,96,60.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon-Syrah,K Vintners
418,US,"A massive Pinot Noir that showcases the magnificence of the vintage, as well as this proven vineyard. Shows youthful, tannin-inspired flavors of sour black and red cherries, plums, red currants, cola, anise and sandalwood, finished with pepper, cinnamon and other dusty spices. Despite the power, the wine feels light and silky in the palate. Irresistible. Terrific now and through 2013, at least.",Quail Hill Vineyard Bliss Block,95,60.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
419,US,"If you had to choose one Zinfandel to showcase Dry Creek Valley, it's this one. The vines are said to be over 100 years of age. Just superb. Has the balance and depth of a fine Cabernet Sauvignon, but with Zin's spicy, briary, brambly personality. Erupts in wild berry, currant, cola, leather, mocha and peppery spice flavors that are so rich and deep and long-lasting. Pricey, but sets a benchmark for Zinfandel. Only 550 cases were produced.",Buchignani-Garcia Vineyard Old Vine Reserve,95,60.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Deerfield
420,US,"Delicious now, a rich Pinot Noir with lush flavors of black cherries, red currants, cola and smoky oak. It's a big wine with sizable tannins and crisp, coastal acidity, but it's very dry and silky, and shows great elegance. Should develop bottle complexity over the next six years.",Wightman House Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,MacPhail
421,US,"A wondrous bottling of delicately handled, incredibly complex wine, this bottling shows tangy cranberry, black raspberry, butter cookie, wet sage, rosemary, menthol and green peppercorn on the nose. Once sipped, the soft, savory yet amply fruited palate shows plum, fig and mulberry that are seasoned with pencil shavings, graphite, incense and sandalwood.",La Coupelle Single Vineyard,96,60.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Laetitia
422,US,"You can quibble with the price, but there's no doubt about the quality of this Zin. It's extraordinarily deeply flavored, offering waves of wild cherries, cola, anise, molé sauce, pepper spice and sandalwood, wrapped into profoundly fine tannins, and with a long, dry finish. Drink this near-perfect Zinfandel over the next six years.",Old Hill Single Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Sonoma Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Ravenswood
423,US,"Dramatic all around. Deeply aromatic, offering waves of grilled blackberries, currants, violets, sweet buttered cinnamon toast and sandalwood. The tannin structure is superb. Feels classically dense and full-bodied in the mouth, very dry, yet opulent and complex. Grows more concentrated as it airs in the glass. A tremendous wine that needs time. 2012–2020.",Corestone Ridge,96,60.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Atalon
424,US,"It's easy to get ripe fruit in California and then plaster it in oak, but what's so difficult to achieve is the crisp, minerally structure this wine displays. It's rich in pineapple cream, Key lime pie, Meyer lemon sorbet, golden mango and vanilla oak flavors, but achieves balanced elegance with crisp acidity and a wonderful stony purity. Only 349 cases produced.",Proprietress Reserve,95,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Chardonnay,Vine Cliff
425,US,"You can quibble with the price, but there's no doubt about the quality of this Zin. It's extraordinarily deeply flavored, offering waves of wild cherries, cola, anise, molé sauce, pepper spice and sandalwood, wrapped into profoundly fine tannins, and with a long, dry finish. Drink this near-perfect Zinfandel over the next six years.",Old Hill Single Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Sonoma Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Ravenswood
426,US,"This is a big Pinot Noir, with an explosive intensity of cherries and raspberries that is ripe and pure. Oak, of course, is there too, in the form of buttered, smoky toast. However, the wine isn't a mere fruit bomb. It has interesting nuances of earthy things, like mushrooms, nettles and Provençal herbs. The silky texture is an exquisite balance of acids and tannins. This new brand from Hall winery is made by their talented winemaker, Steve Leveque, and it immediately enters the California pantheon of excellent Pinot Noirs.",The Corners,95,60.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Walt
427,US,"An outstanding Pinot, absolutely, decadently good, that combines attributes of the fine vintage with some fine parcels from this celebrated vineyard. Softly lush, it shows fabulous flavors of cherries, red currants, licorice, cola, orange peel, sandalwood and Asian spices, but never loses structural balance and control.",Garys' Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Miner
428,US,"In a stellar lineup of 2010 Evening Land Pinots, this is the best. It displays eye-popping character and depth, a ripe powerhouse at just 13.1% alcohol. Black cherry fruit comes laced with cinnamon and baking spice notes. It's a full, round, rich, and fruity wine that just never quits.",Seven Springs Vineyard La Source,95,60.0,Oregon,Eola-Amity Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Evening Land
429,US,"The En Chamberlin vineyard, farmed biodynamically by Christophe Baron of Cayuse, is the source for this 62% Cabernet Sauvignon/38% Syrah blend. Concentrated and dense, beautifully structured with the herbal flavors of Cabernet Sauvignon set against tart wild berry and hints of citrusy acid.",En Chamberlin Roma Red,95,60.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,K Vintners
430,US,"This incredibly tasty wine seems to melt in the mouth. Classic aromas of cinnamon, black cherry and cedar becomes more chocolaty on the palate as layers of cocoa, dark plum and toasted baguette unfold. Its texture is so velvety that the fine-grained tannins seem to dissolve as you sip, while still providing a slight grip that counteracts the richness and full body. Tempting now, it will be best 2022–2032.",V Block,95,60.0,California,Yountville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Liparita
431,US,"Gorgeously ripe fruit packs this wine with tropical flavors of cantaloupe, apricot and papaya. Lemony acid keeps it fresh and vibrant, and the overall texture and complexity are a revelation. Both of Evening Land's Chardonnays elevate the grape to new heights in this part of the Willamette Valley.",Seven Springs Vineyard La Source,95,60.0,Oregon,Eola-Amity Hills,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Evening Land
432,US,"Outstanding. Easily the best Signorello Chardonnay in many years, and a dramatic sign of the quality of the 2007 vintage. Shows intense tropical fruit, mineral and new oak aromas and flavors, with a rich array of dusty Asian spices. Just 72 cases were produced, but it's worth the search.",Hope's Cuvee,95,60.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Chardonnay,Signorello
433,US,"The vineyard is in the interior part of the appellation, toward Carneros, and the wine displays the firm, acidic minerality of that cool, foggy region. It has fantastic limpidity. The oak is remarkable for the purity of vanilla and smoky honey, while the underlying flavors of Meyer lemons, pineapples, nectarines and kumquats are decadently good. A masterpiece of Chardonnay.",Stone Côte Vineyard,96,60.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Hartford Court
434,US,"This is from a block of younger vines made from Dijon clones within the larger Arrendell Vineyard. The wine is quite full-bodied and robust, almost rustic, which is mainly due to the powerful, young tannins. With explosive berry, currant and mocha flavors, this powerful wine should hit its stride in mid-2010.",Hailey's Block,95,60.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hartford Court
435,US,"A gorgeous wine, lush and refined from the first sniff to the last swallow. Rose petals, cotton candy, chocolate-covered cherries—it's a date in a bottle. As the wine rolls across the palate it seems to gain depth and detail, while keeping the exceptionally pretty fruit flavors front and center. Silky and lightly spicy, with cinnamon, toast, mocha and tobacco highlights.",Reserve,95,60.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Ponzi
436,US,"Complex aromas of cassis, dough, espresso, bacon, and cola create instant interest. It seduces with its rich dark fruit and earth flavors, and a concentrated, suave mouthfeel. Big flavors and tannins don't quit on the long, even finish. Profoundly enjoyable, seamless and shows impeccable balance. Keep for five to seven years; it will last a long time.",Reserve,96,60.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Lewis
437,US,"A spectacular Chardonnay—this is dazzingly beautiful and mesmerizing in its appeal. The complexity of flavor stuns, offering tiers of pineapples, oranges, green apples and golden mangoes. Then the oaky influences appear in the form of buttered toast and caramel, with a suggestion of honey. The finish is dry and crisp in acidity.",South River Vineyard,97,60.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Rochioli
438,US,"Dramatic all around. Deeply aromatic, offering waves of grilled blackberries, currants, violets, sweet buttered cinnamon toast and sandalwood. The tannin structure is superb. Feels classically dense and full-bodied in the mouth, very dry, yet opulent and complex. Grows more concentrated as it airs in the glass. A tremendous wine that needs time. 2012–2020.",Corestone Ridge,96,60.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Atalon
439,US,"This block designate from Laetitia's estate vineyard comes from a warmer, eastern site. It is high in acidity and extremely dry. The flavors and mouthfeel are so complex that it takes several sips to grasp what's going on, by which time the wine has climbed to even higher levels. This is truly great California Pinot Noir.",Les Galets,95,60.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Laetitia
440,US,"This is one for the cellar. Dry and savory, it shows powerfully ripe blackberry, cherry, cassis and coffee flavors that have been well oaked, and the silky, elegant texture of Pinot Noir. But there's a youthful tightness that withholds the wine's tender heart. Best after 2008, and will develop for an additional 6 to 10 years.",Deer Camp,96,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
441,US,"This 100% Viognier was grown in the Bien Nacido Vineyard. It's bone dry, crisp in acidity and firm in wet stone minerals, while the rich fruit flavors suggest fresh, juicy citron, quince and sweet lime. Just wonderful, a bracing, pure, clean and pure example of a variety that can often be fussy.",Fractured Flowers,95,60.0,California,California,California Other,Viognier,Sanguis
442,US,"An outstanding Pinot, absolutely, decadently good, that combines attributes of the fine vintage with some fine parcels from this celebrated vineyard. Softly lush, it shows fabulous flavors of cherries, red currants, licorice, cola, orange peel, sandalwood and Asian spices, but never loses structural balance and control.",Garys' Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Miner
443,US,"One word describes this Chardonnay: fabulous. It's really everything a California Chardonnay can deliver. Ripe tropical fruit, pear, green apple and honey flavors are wrapped into buttery, smoky oak. The richness is brightened by crisp acidity and a touch of minerals, showing its pedigree with every nuance. Drink soon, to enjoy its youthful beauty.",Sweetwater Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Rochioli
444,US,"Tasted side by side with Laetitia's Les Galets bottling, this wine is virtually identical. The differences are minute. Colline is perhaps a shade more acidic, a bit leaner, a little drier and more tannic. But like Galets, it is an authentically great, young Pinot Noir, as elegant and complex as any Pinot of the vintage.",La Colline,95,60.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Laetitia
445,US,"The En Chamberlin vineyard, farmed biodynamically by Christophe Baron of Cayuse, is the source for this 62% Cabernet Sauvignon/38% Syrah blend. Concentrated and dense, beautifully structured with the herbal flavors of Cabernet Sauvignon set against tart wild berry and hints of citrusy acid.",En Chamberlin Roma Red,95,60.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,K Vintners
446,US,"It's easy to get ripe fruit in California and then plaster it in oak, but what's so difficult to achieve is the crisp, minerally structure this wine displays. It's rich in pineapple cream, Key lime pie, Meyer lemon sorbet, golden mango and vanilla oak flavors, but achieves balanced elegance with crisp acidity and a wonderful stony purity. Only 349 cases produced.",Proprietress Reserve,95,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Chardonnay,Vine Cliff
447,US,"A gorgeous wine, lush and refined from the first sniff to the last swallow. Rose petals, cotton candy, chocolate-covered cherries—it's a date in a bottle. As the wine rolls across the palate it seems to gain depth and detail, while keeping the exceptionally pretty fruit flavors front and center. Silky and lightly spicy, with cinnamon, toast, mocha and tobacco highlights.",Reserve,95,60.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Ponzi
448,US,"This has been one of Etude's best bottlings, and 2007 was a great year. If you enjoy sheer, decadent deliciousness in your Pinot Noirs, this is one for you. The palate first is struck by the rich waves of cherry pie filling, raspberry essence and sweet, vanilla-tinged, smoky oak. Then it discovers the soft silkiness, and finally the firm, fine tannins kick in, providing structure. Just beguiling, and should develop in the bottle over the next 5–6 years.",Deer Camp,95,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
449,US,"Bright raspberry and strawberry flavors kick off this well-balanced effort. It's buoyed by ample natural acidity and adorned with highlights of pastry and baking spices. It expands gracefully as it breathes, adding volume and density. Give this extra cellar time. It should drink best from 2018–2030.",Estate Vineyard,95,60.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Ayoub
450,US,"Some will critique this Pinot Noir as being too big and extracted, and lacking delicacy. But Olivet Lane Pinots are seldom delicate. You look for massive fruit and elaborate construction, and that's what you find in this fabulously exotic wine. It's a beauty, rich, dense and opulent, with complex cherry, rose petal, dark chocolate and new oak flavors, wrapped into firm, refined tannins. Just gorgeous now, with a few hours of decanting, but it will easily develop bottle nuances for a good eight years.",Olivet Lane,95,60.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
451,US,"Certainly the finest Grand Ciel Syrah to date, this is a full-flavored, complete wine, loaded with pure fruit flavors of berry and cassis. The details pile on—a whiff of stone, a hint of chocolate, suggestions of spice, all in perfect proportion.",Grand Ciel Vineyard,95,60.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Syrah,Doyenne
452,US,"There's a grace and purity to this Pinot Noir that make it particularly recommendable. It's so light and silky, it just glides like a butterfly across the palate. But it's extraordinarily rich in wild raspberry and cherry fruit, and the white pepper and baking spices make it savory. Delicious now, but it should prosper over the next eight years, at least.",La Rinconada,95,60.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sanford
453,US,"This wine's aromas are perfectly pretty but with a sharp edge, blending tight boysenberry, raspberry and red-apple with lilac and scarlet-red rose-petal florality and an anise-peppercorn spice. The palate is full, soft and yet focused, with dried strawberry, plum and red cherries giving way to pencil lead and sage.",Block Q Old Vine Bien Nacido Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Scar of the Sea
454,US,"The vineyard is in the coolest part of the valley, the southerly part Merry Edwards calls the Golden Triangle. The wine is dry, tannic, bright in acidity and insanely rich. Just floods the mouth with cherry, cola, anise, pomegranate and mulberry flavors, with an earthiness suggesting mushrooms. Just great now, with decanting, and will easily develop in the bottle through 2020.",Coopersmith,95,60.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
455,US,"This Père de Famille is 85% Cabernet Sauvignon, with the rest split between Merlot and Petit Verdot. Sweet, pure fruit—black currants and black cherry and blackberry—is packed tight, concentrated and polished, but needing hours to breathe open. Dense, dusty, complex, complicated, this wine is sophisticated beyond description.",Père de Famille,97,60.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
456,US,"This is from a block of younger vines made from Dijon clones within the larger Arrendell Vineyard. The wine is quite full-bodied and robust, almost rustic, which is mainly due to the powerful, young tannins. With explosive berry, currant and mocha flavors, this powerful wine should hit its stride in mid-2010.",Hailey's Block,95,60.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hartford Court
457,US,"The apogee of this ambitious winery's white wine efforts, this bottling of just two barrels of Clone 5 shows focused marzipan, marcona almond and white peach notes on the nose. The palate sizzles with saltiness and a lemony acidity that cuts through its brown butter richness with finesse. The finish is luxurious and long.",Giallo Solare,95,60.0,California,Edna Valley,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Center of Effort
458,US,"This shows Merry Edwards' signature of exceptional deliciousness and drinkability, coupled with seemingly neverending depth. Made using fruit sourced from the winery's vineyard in the cooler southwestern part of the valley, near Sebastopol, this is rich in acids and soft tannins, but the flavors set it apart. Notes of raspberry, cherry, cola, tea, licorice, pepper and sandalwood abound and evolve with every sip. Drink now–2018.",Coopersmith,95,60.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
459,US,"A gorgeous evocation of Pinot Noir. Pours pale in color and translucent, suggesting it's not a heavy fruit bomb, and indeed it is not. Feels as light as a cloud, yet with intense flavors of red stone fruits, bacon and spices, and that feral, wild forest quality you get from the best Sonoma Coast Pinot Noirs. Bone dry, but so sweet in fruit and cedar, with wonderful acidity. Superb now, after decanting, and should develop over the next 6–8 years.",Bill and Joan's Special Selection Maritime,95,60.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,W.H. Smith
460,US,"An outstanding Pinot, absolutely, decadently good, that combines attributes of the fine vintage with some fine parcels from this celebrated vineyard. Softly lush, it shows fabulous flavors of cherries, red currants, licorice, cola, orange peel, sandalwood and Asian spices, but never loses structural balance and control.",Garys' Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Miner
461,US,"The En Chamberlin vineyard, farmed biodynamically by Christophe Baron of Cayuse, is the source for this 62% Cabernet Sauvignon/38% Syrah blend. Concentrated and dense, beautifully structured with the herbal flavors of Cabernet Sauvignon set against tart wild berry and hints of citrusy acid.",En Chamberlin Roma Red,95,60.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,K Vintners
462,US,"This is one for the cellar. Dry and savory, it shows powerfully ripe blackberry, cherry, cassis and coffee flavors that have been well oaked, and the silky, elegant texture of Pinot Noir. But there's a youthful tightness that withholds the wine's tender heart. Best after 2008, and will develop for an additional 6 to 10 years.",Deer Camp,96,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
463,US,"From a Westside Road-adjacent vineyard in the heart of the northern Middle Reach, Flax is rocky and the vines a decade old. Expect luxurious power and a velvety mouthfeel from this wine, its black tea, pomegranate and rhubarb flavors brushed with allspice, sage and cola.",Flax Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
464,US,"This is Etude's inaugural bottling of this wine, a block designation from the estate. It shows not only classic Carneros quality, but something exotic. Dry and complex, the wine has cherry, cassis, raspberry and new oak flavors, with good acidity. That extra something is a feral, earthy quality, suggesting olive tapenade, sweet leather, tobacco and mushrooms that has got to come from terroir. Youthfully great now, and should age effortlessly for the next 8 to 10 years.",Temblor,95,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
465,US,"This shows crisp acids and fine balance. It's huge in blackberry and cherry fruit, but has the structural integrity and finesse that, quite simply, make it a very great Cabernet Sauvignon. Drink now–2015.",Graveyard Hill Vineyard,96,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Clos Pegase
466,US,"This Père de Famille is 85% Cabernet Sauvignon, with the rest split between Merlot and Petit Verdot. Sweet, pure fruit—black currants and black cherry and blackberry—is packed tight, concentrated and polished, but needing hours to breathe open. Dense, dusty, complex, complicated, this wine is sophisticated beyond description.",Père de Famille,97,60.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
467,US,"This has been one of Etude's best bottlings, and 2007 was a great year. If you enjoy sheer, decadent deliciousness in your Pinot Noirs, this is one for you. The palate first is struck by the rich waves of cherry pie filling, raspberry essence and sweet, vanilla-tinged, smoky oak. Then it discovers the soft silkiness, and finally the firm, fine tannins kick in, providing structure. Just beguiling, and should develop in the bottle over the next 5–6 years.",Deer Camp,95,60.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
468,US,"A sensational Pinot Noir for its complexity, ageability and sheer deliciousness. The parts haven't come together yet, but each is great. Smoky new oak dominates, closely followed by enormously ripe crushed cherry, blackberry, pomegranate, cola and mocha flavors. There's a rich tannin-acid structure, and the sweet, spicy oak reprises on the finish. This big, masculine wine needs time to come together. Should open by 2008 and increase in desirability for a number of years.",Les Galets,96,60.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Laetitia
469,US,"The producer sources from two blocks of the vineyard for this wine—one at a high elevation, which contributes bright acidity. Crunchy cranberry, pomegranate and orange peel flavors surround silky, succulent layers of texture that present as fleshy fruit. That delicately lush flavor has considerable length.",Gap's Crown Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Blue Farm
470,US,"Extremely complex, and while it shows powerful red cherry, cola, rhubarb and tea flavors, it maintains the essential elegance that Pinot requires. The acidity is wonderful. Vey, very dry. So balanced, so layered, so drinkable.",La Colline,96,60.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Laetitia
471,US,"From an estate vineyard planted high atop the Sebastopol Hills near Freestone, this wine impresses from start to finish. It shows unique white pepper and floral aromas, while a seamless texture supports its succulent cranberry and cherry flavors, a long, lingering accent of nutmeg spice rounding out the finish.",Tilton Hill,95,60.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Benovia
472,US,"A gorgeous wine, lush and refined from the first sniff to the last swallow. Rose petals, cotton candy, chocolate-covered cherries—it's a date in a bottle. As the wine rolls across the palate it seems to gain depth and detail, while keeping the exceptionally pretty fruit flavors front and center. Silky and lightly spicy, with cinnamon, toast, mocha and tobacco highlights.",Reserve,95,60.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Ponzi
473,US,"If you had to choose one Zinfandel to showcase Dry Creek Valley, it's this one. The vines are said to be over 100 years of age. Just superb. Has the balance and depth of a fine Cabernet Sauvignon, but with Zin's spicy, briary, brambly personality. Erupts in wild berry, currant, cola, leather, mocha and peppery spice flavors that are so rich and deep and long-lasting. Pricey, but sets a benchmark for Zinfandel. Only 550 cases were produced.",Buchignani-Garcia Vineyard Old Vine Reserve,95,60.0,California,Dry Creek Valley,Sonoma,Zinfandel,Deerfield
474,US,"This hillside-grown wine is only vineyard-designated in special vintages. The nose is like a delicate pine sap, with elements of spearmint, sweet camphor and anise set against light raspberry juice. It's elegant but energetic, with soy sauce, clove and menthol highlighting the hibiscus and red and purple fruits.",La Colline Single Vineyard,95,60.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Laetitia
475,US,"Young and tart in cool-climate acidity, this Pinot needs time in the cellar. It's an exotic wine, spicy and peppery, almost briary, like a Zinfandel, except with flavors of wild forest raspberries, cherries, orange zest and a hint of pine cone. It's as cellarable a Pinot Noir as exists in California. Best after 2015.",San Andreas,95,60.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hirsch
476,US,"This 100% Viognier was grown in the Bien Nacido Vineyard. It's bone dry, crisp in acidity and firm in wet stone minerals, while the rich fruit flavors suggest fresh, juicy citron, quince and sweet lime. Just wonderful, a bracing, pure, clean and pure example of a variety that can often be fussy.",Fractured Flowers,95,60.0,California,California,California Other,Viognier,Sanguis
477,US,"This Père de Famille is 85% Cabernet Sauvignon, with the rest split between Merlot and Petit Verdot. Sweet, pure fruit—black currants and black cherry and blackberry—is packed tight, concentrated and polished, but needing hours to breathe open. Dense, dusty, complex, complicated, this wine is sophisticated beyond description.",Père de Famille,97,60.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
478,US,"The pedigree of this rich Pinot Noir is evident right away in the mouthfeel, offering a silky and satiny texture, brightened with citrusy acidity. The flavors immediately kick in with a solid wall of red cherries, licorice, persimmons, pomegranates and cola. An exciting, complex wine to drink now, and it should gather momentum over six years, maybe even longer.",Olivet Lane,95,62.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Merry Edwards
479,US,"This bottling comes from the best blocks and barrels from this single vineyard, co-owned by a number of Edna Valley luminaries. The result is stunning, with baked raspberry, strawberry, maple, and peppery bacon aromas comprising a spicy, exotic nose. Black plum fruit melds with white pepper and crushed herbs, diving into tangy strawberry and sandalwood incense notes on the finish.",Precious Stone Stone Corral Vineyard,95,62.0,California,Edna Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Kynsi
480,US,"Failla is so well known for Pinot Noir that we sometimes forget how good their estate Syrah can be. Given the vineyard's terroir, its red wines show better in cooler vintages—like 2010—while its above-the-fogline elevation encourages ripeness. This is dry, tannic and peppery, with a succulent blackberry flavor. Among the best Syrahs of the year, it's gorgeous now, and should develop over the next six years.",Estate,95,62.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Syrah,Failla
481,US,"This is a showstopper, the top of the line at Chateau Rollat, certainly one of the most exciting new ventures to open in Walla Walla in the past decade. Deep and compact, it's a classic wine to cellar, holding its dark and smoky secrets tightly wound around a core of dense black fruits nuanced with streaks of bark, soil, earth and barrel. A subtle, moody and yet quite expressive wine, it engages the intellect as well as the palate—a rare treat indeed.",Edouard de Rollat,95,62.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Chateau Rollat
482,US,"This riveting wine displays the exceptional finesse and precision that fruit from this AVA can deliver. It's Pinot Noir expressed in the most subtle and demanding way. Beautifully orchestrated red fruits, sappy acids, lush spices, perfect balance and an immaculate mineral-soaked finish are all on display. Drink 2018 through 2030.",Bryce Vineyard,96,63.0,Oregon,Ribbon Ridge,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Ken Wright
483,US,"In this new vintage of Sorella, Cabernet Sauvignon is again right out front at 72% of the blend. Here the fruit seems more subdued, the wine tight, the dense tannins showing graphite and mineral more than new barrel flavors. It definitely needs decanting.",Sorella Red Wine,96,64.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
484,US,"In this new vintage of Sorella, Cabernet Sauvignon is again right out front at 72% of the blend. Here the fruit seems more subdued, the wine tight, the dense tannins showing graphite and mineral more than new barrel flavors. It definitely needs decanting.",Sorella Red Wine,96,64.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
485,US,"In this new vintage of Sorella, Cabernet Sauvignon is again right out front at 72% of the blend. Here the fruit seems more subdued, the wine tight, the dense tannins showing graphite and mineral more than new barrel flavors. It definitely needs decanting.",Sorella Red Wine,96,64.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Andrew Will
486,US,"You don't want to open this wine anytime soon. It's tightly wound and immature, offering a blast of primary fruit flavors that haven't yet integrated with the oak. It tastes almost sweet now, although it's technically bone dry, with waves of black cherries, blackberries, mocha, anise liqueur and smoky oak vanillins, followed by a long, spicy finish. Hold until 2012, if you can, and should drink well beyond that.",Purple Label Piedra Hill Vineyard,95,64.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,W.H. Smith
487,US,"A drop-dead gorgeous red blend that continues Flora Springs' fine streak of Bordeaux-style wines. Full-bodied and dry, it's balanced and rich, with complex flavors of currants, minerals, cedar and spice. The tannins are strong, but ultra-refined. Drink this high-quality wine now and through 2015.",Trilogy,95,65.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Flora Springs
488,US,"The only one of the Cayuse Syrahs that is co-fermented with Viognier, this opens with a stunning, floral bouquet, showing extraordinary depth and texture. The wine has a floral top, a thickly fruity middle and a base with smoke, rock and meat. Still very young, it is already a complete, fully-realized, near-perfect wine with a finish that extends for many minutes. This should age for 25 –30 years. Right now, it's almost frozen in place; still a bit tannic, but with superb aging potential.",Cailloux Vineyard,99,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
489,US,"In a stunning lineup of Cayuse Syrahs, the En Chamberlin wins by a nose. It's smooth and silky, with a tongue-bending blend of flavors that include blood and iron, umami and salt, at first overtaking the pure fruit, but adding tremendous depth and power. The endless finish unfolds into a wine with exotic spices and complex layering.",En Chamberlin Vineyard,100,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
490,US,"This is a blend of 81% Cabernet Sauvignon, 18% Merlot and 1% Cabernet Franc, and all of the fruit came from old vines from two of Washington's most revered vineyards, Champoux and Weinbau. Supple and ripe, it's packed with a brilliant, flavorful mix of berries, cherries and cassis. The tannins are polished, and the barrel-derived notes of toast, cinnamon, coffee and caramel linger through the long, smooth finish.",Reserve,96,65.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Januik
491,US,"A small-production barrel selection from the estate vineyard, this fine wine is brilliantly rich and balanced, proving that Napa Valley can produce excellent Chardonnay. With pineapple, lemon, lime and buttered toast flavors, it's ultraclean in acidity and vibrant in minerals. While it's quite dry, it finishes with a rich flourish of honey.",Hope's Cuvee Estate Grown and Bottled,95,65.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Chardonnay,Signorello
492,US,"Acidity and minerals are the hallmarks of this exciting Chardonnay. Of course, you'll find the ripe tropical fruit and new oak and lees of other Chardonnays, but it's really that tanginess that attracts. Currently the wine shows primary flavors of mangoes and papayas, but it would not surprise me if it ages well beyond five years.",Double L Vineyard Hat Trick,95,65.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Morgan
493,US,"This re-named vineyard was formerly bottled as deLancellotti. You'll find striking minerality underscoring chunky black fruits. Accents of citrus and graphite comingle, with exceptional midpalate concentration. This is a wine to cellar, though it is already quite enjoyable. Drink now through 2030.",Silice,95,65.0,Oregon,Chehalem Mountains,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Bergström
494,US,"The Jackson and Hartford families established this vineyard on the far Sonoma Coast in hopes of crafting Pinot Noir at the limits of its ability to ripen. The magnificent 2007 vintage has resulted in a wine of unusual tension. It's very ripe in black and red cherry pie filling and sweet oak flavors, but retains the acidity of its cool-climate origins, and even offers a feral taste of bloody meat. Drink this impressive, complex wine now and through 2015.",Seascape,95,65.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hartford
495,US,"All Maresh vineyard grapes are behind this gorgeous and feminine Pinot, with soft and evocative scents of truffle, chocolate and raspberry. Brilliant winemaking that takes all the elements of great Oregon fruit and puts them into unique focus, with winemaker Kelley Fox's trademark blend of biodynamic earthy/fungal flavors, elegant berry/cherry fruit, and just a touch of milk chocolate. The alcohol just reaches 13%.",Audrey,95,65.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Scott Paul
496,US,"An extraordinary wine, dry, crisp in acidity and wonderfully silky in the mouth. The flavors are deep and complex, changing with every second as the wine breathes. Raspberries, wild clove and cinnamon spices, cola, dried herbs, things that taste earthy and minerally and woodsy. Insanely complex and dynamic, this Pinot should age for up to eight years.",Bien Nacido Vineyard N Block,95,65.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Tyler
497,US,"Januik's reserve blend is 84% Cabernet Sauvignon, 14% Merlot and 2% Cabernet Franc. It's built like the Fortress of Solitude—at first impenetrable, then slowly revealing layer upon layer of deep, dark black fruits. A base of iron and stone adds further gravitas.",Reserve,95,65.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Januik
498,US,"A portion of the Cabernet Sauvignon is sourced from vines planted in 1973, with additions of 10% Petit Verdot and 8% Merlot. It's an exceptionally fine-tuned blend, with pinpoint fruit flavors, sappy acids and complementary barrel notes. The classic structure, which is the hallmark of all Betz wines, suggests a long life ahead.",Père de Famille,96,65.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
499,US,"This spent 20 months in 30% new French oak, and incorporates fruit from Ponzi's Aurora, Abetina and Madrona vineyards, among others. Aromatic, dense and toasty, it deftly blends aromas and flavors of toast, cigar box, blackberry, black cherry, coffee and graphite. Tannins are polished to a fine sheen, and frame a finish loaded with dark chocolate and espresso. Drink now through 2032.",Reserve,96,65.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Ponzi
500,US,"Aromatic and invited, almost jet black in color, this single-vineyard offering is a pungent mix of blood orange, rosemary and cassis. Dense and focused, compact and layered, it is structured very much like a Cabernet, but with a full palette (and palate) of Syrah fruit flavors.",En Cerise Vineyard,98,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
501,US,"In a stunning lineup of Cayuse Syrahs, the En Chamberlin wins by a nose. It's smooth and silky, with a tongue-bending blend of flavors that include blood and iron, umami and salt, at first overtaking the pure fruit, but adding tremendous depth and power. The endless finish unfolds into a wine with exotic spices and complex layering.",En Chamberlin Vineyard,100,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
502,US,"The only one of the Cayuse Syrahs that is co-fermented with Viognier, this opens with a stunning, floral bouquet, showing extraordinary depth and texture. The wine has a floral top, a thickly fruity middle and a base with smoke, rock and meat. Still very young, it is already a complete, fully-realized, near-perfect wine with a finish that extends for many minutes. This should age for 25 –30 years. Right now, it's almost frozen in place; still a bit tannic, but with superb aging potential.",Cailloux Vineyard,99,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
503,US,"A small-production barrel selection from the estate vineyard, this fine wine is brilliantly rich and balanced, proving that Napa Valley can produce excellent Chardonnay. With pineapple, lemon, lime and buttered toast flavors, it's ultraclean in acidity and vibrant in minerals. While it's quite dry, it finishes with a rich flourish of honey.",Hope's Cuvee Estate Grown and Bottled,95,65.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Chardonnay,Signorello
504,US,"Aromatic and invited, almost jet black in color, this single-vineyard offering is a pungent mix of blood orange, rosemary and cassis. Dense and focused, compact and layered, it is structured very much like a Cabernet, but with a full palette (and palate) of Syrah fruit flavors.",En Cerise Vineyard,98,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
505,US,"Aromatic and invited, almost jet black in color, this single-vineyard offering is a pungent mix of blood orange, rosemary and cassis. Dense and focused, compact and layered, it is structured very much like a Cabernet, but with a full palette (and palate) of Syrah fruit flavors.",En Cerise Vineyard,98,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
506,US,"All Maresh vineyard grapes are behind this gorgeous and feminine Pinot, with soft and evocative scents of truffle, chocolate and raspberry. Brilliant winemaking that takes all the elements of great Oregon fruit and puts them into unique focus, with winemaker Kelley Fox's trademark blend of biodynamic earthy/fungal flavors, elegant berry/cherry fruit, and just a touch of milk chocolate. The alcohol just reaches 13%.",Audrey,95,65.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Scott Paul
507,US,"The only one of the Cayuse Syrahs that is co-fermented with Viognier, this opens with a stunning, floral bouquet, showing extraordinary depth and texture. The wine has a floral top, a thickly fruity middle and a base with smoke, rock and meat. Still very young, it is already a complete, fully-realized, near-perfect wine with a finish that extends for many minutes. This should age for 25 –30 years. Right now, it's almost frozen in place; still a bit tannic, but with superb aging potential.",Cailloux Vineyard,99,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
508,US,"Acidity and minerals are the hallmarks of this exciting Chardonnay. Of course, you'll find the ripe tropical fruit and new oak and lees of other Chardonnays, but it's really that tanginess that attracts. Currently the wine shows primary flavors of mangoes and papayas, but it would not surprise me if it ages well beyond five years.",Double L Vineyard Hat Trick,95,65.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Morgan
509,US,"Gorgeous and immaculate. Showcases Russian River/Sonoma Coast Pinot at its finest, with superb acidity, ultra-refined tannins and flavors of grilled blackberries, cherry pie filling, cola, crushed black pepper, cinnamon, anise and smoky, caramelized sandalwood. As rich as it is, there's an elusive quality, with hints of wild game and undefineable forest floor. Beautiful now and through 2015.",Occidental Coast Two Daughters Vineyard,96,65.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Evening Land
510,US,"In a stunning lineup of Cayuse Syrahs, the En Chamberlin wins by a nose. It's smooth and silky, with a tongue-bending blend of flavors that include blood and iron, umami and salt, at first overtaking the pure fruit, but adding tremendous depth and power. The endless finish unfolds into a wine with exotic spices and complex layering.",En Chamberlin Vineyard,100,65.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
511,US,"The most notable thing about this Pinot is its intensity of flavor. A blend of both new Dijon clones and older California selections of Pinot Noir, it is stunning with flavors of raspberries, cherries and Dr. Pepper. It's a balanced, elegant wine with vibrant texture , but needs time to truly shine. Hold till at least 2017.",Sea View Ridge Estate Vineyard,95,65.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Flowers
512,US,"This is a blend of 81% Cabernet Sauvignon, 18% Merlot and 1% Cabernet Franc, and all of the fruit came from old vines from two of Washington's most revered vineyards, Champoux and Weinbau. Supple and ripe, it's packed with a brilliant, flavorful mix of berries, cherries and cassis. The tannins are polished, and the barrel-derived notes of toast, cinnamon, coffee and caramel linger through the long, smooth finish.",Reserve,96,65.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Januik
513,US,"Gorgeous and immaculate. Showcases Russian River/Sonoma Coast Pinot at its finest, with superb acidity, ultra-refined tannins and flavors of grilled blackberries, cherry pie filling, cola, crushed black pepper, cinnamon, anise and smoky, caramelized sandalwood. As rich as it is, there's an elusive quality, with hints of wild game and undefineable forest floor. Beautiful now and through 2015.",Occidental Coast Two Daughters Vineyard,96,65.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Evening Land
514,US,"This wine comes from a new vineyard source for the producer, who continues to astound with Chardonnay. The site rises to well-crafted heights in the winemaker's hands. Made in a small quantity, the wine offers zesty lemon intensity and concentrated acidity, the entire balanced experience rewarding in its bright complexity.",Woolsey Road Vineyard,96,65.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Ramey
515,US,"The Freedom Hill selection from Ken Wright has never been better than this exceptionally rich, dark and dense Pinot Noir. Black cherry, smoke, earth and chocolate intertwine in a remarkably smooth, long, complex and extended finish. A sensational wine to enjoy right now.",Freedom Hill Vineyard,96,65.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Ken Wright
516,US,"The most notable thing about this Pinot is its intensity of flavor. A blend of both new Dijon clones and older California selections of Pinot Noir, it is stunning with flavors of raspberries, cherries and Dr. Pepper. It's a balanced, elegant wine with vibrant texture , but needs time to truly shine. Hold till at least 2017.",Sea View Ridge Estate Vineyard,95,65.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Flowers
517,US,"All Maresh vineyard grapes are behind this gorgeous and feminine Pinot, with soft and evocative scents of truffle, chocolate and raspberry. Brilliant winemaking that takes all the elements of great Oregon fruit and puts them into unique focus, with winemaker Kelley Fox's trademark blend of biodynamic earthy/fungal flavors, elegant berry/cherry fruit, and just a touch of milk chocolate. The alcohol just reaches 13%.",Audrey,95,65.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Scott Paul
518,US,"I always think of Francis Coppola's Cask Cabernet as his hommage to the old Inglenook. It's 100% varietal, grown at the Rutherford estate, and a spectacular wine. Enormously oaky now, with an explosion of char and vanilla, it shows an underworld of black currants, and is huge in sweet, youthful tannins. Yet those tannins are so polished, so refined. This is a glamorous wine, tremendous now, and will hold and develop through 2020.",Cask,95,65.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Rubicon Estate
519,US,"A small-production barrel selection from the estate vineyard, this fine wine is brilliantly rich and balanced, proving that Napa Valley can produce excellent Chardonnay. With pineapple, lemon, lime and buttered toast flavors, it's ultraclean in acidity and vibrant in minerals. While it's quite dry, it finishes with a rich flourish of honey.",Hope's Cuvee Estate Grown and Bottled,95,65.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Chardonnay,Signorello
520,US,"Those who think they prefer anything but Chardonnay may be convinced otherwise with this wine. It is so powerfully evocative in crisply rendered Meyer lemon and tangerine notes, with aromas of fresh white flowers teasing provocatively on the nose. Seamless and seductively bright in acidity, it glides down the palate, hinting at a richness that never becomes overdone.",Drake Estate Vineyard,96,65.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
521,US,"This reserve-level cuvée has been made since 2004, but in severely limited amounts. A mix of one-third new, one-third once-used and one-third neutral oak barrels aged the blend. Rich, tight and sappy, it shows generous ripe stone and tropical fruits, along with rich layers of butterscotch and toast. Drink now through 2025.",Édition Limitée,95,65.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Domaine Drouhin Oregon
522,US,"Silky yet slightly grippy, this is a mineral-driven wine, with violet and spicy cardamom aromas atop bright, vibrant swathes of cherry and wild strawberry. This vineyard is where Joseph Swan himself first planted Pinot Noir, it retains all the promise and greatness of his initial discovery of this magical place along the Laguna Ridge.",Trenton Estate Vineyard,95,65.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Joseph Swan Vineyards
523,US,"This reserve-level Pinot from DDO is exceptional in every way. Silky, elegant and deeply-fruited, it marries a plush midpalate of red berries and cherries to compelling grace notes of pine needle, cola and mocha. Delicious and ageworthy; if past vintages are any indication, this can go until 2029.",Laurène,95,65.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Domaine Drouhin Oregon
524,US,"Va Piano has introduced a stellar series of single-vineyard Syrahs. But if you had to pick just one, it would have to be this massive, beautifully structured bottle from Les Collines vineyard. Concentrated boysenberry fruit leads into a firm, sleek, subtle wine with even deeper flavors of black cherry, chocolate, espresso and baking spices.",Les Collines,95,65.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Va Piano
525,US,"This wine is deliciously elegant yet decadently rich in all the right ways, from a prime, longtime vineyard source planted to vines over 40 years old. Honeyed apple comes to the fore amid lush, formidable layers of complexity and high-minded pursuit, never getting bogged down, the minerality perfectly pitched and the oak fully integrated.",Ritchie Vineyard,97,65.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Ramey
526,US,"Remarkably inky in color for a Grenache-based blend, it features strong aromas of cedar, meat and deeply purple fruit. The soft, rich mouthfeel coats the palate like a luxurious lacquer, and features flavors of blackberry jam, macerated cherry and vanilla-spiced plums. The blend of florals, herbals, fruit and oak-driven tannins is masterful. Drink now by itself or with a peppercorn-crusted filet mignon.",Veracity Paderewski Vineyard,95,65.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Grenache Blend,Epoch Estate Wines
527,US,"Hat Trick is the best of the best of Morgan's estate vineyard, which is in the chilliest northwestern part of the Highlands. Acidity stars, giving the wine a brilliant crispness that's so clean and fine. Barrel fermented in one-third new French oak, the wine is incredibly rich and leesy. The terroir has coaxed out complex layers of pineapples, Meyer lemons, limes, apricots and very exotic tropical fruits suggesting golden mangoes and papayas. The oak adds even richer layers of crème brûlée to this vastly enjoyable wine.",Double L Vineyard Hat Trick,95,65.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Morgan
528,US,"Winemaker Bob Cabral's three 2010 Chardonnays are possibly the greatest he's ever made. This bottling shows fabulous complexity and sheer deliciousness, offering intricate notes of butterscotch, tropical fruit, pear tart, golden apricot, vanilla cream, buttered toast and exotic spice, with perhaps just a trace of honey. Its brilliant acidity and a tangy minerality provide the balance that pushes this wine off the charts.",Drake Estate Vineyard,96,65.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Williams Selyem
529,US,"Hat Trick is the best of the best of Morgan's estate vineyard, which is in the chilliest northwestern part of the Highlands. Acidity stars, giving the wine a brilliant crispness that's so clean and fine. Barrel fermented in one-third new French oak, the wine is incredibly rich and leesy. The terroir has coaxed out complex layers of pineapples, Meyer lemons, limes, apricots and very exotic tropical fruits suggesting golden mangoes and papayas. The oak adds even richer layers of crème brûlée to this vastly enjoyable wine.",Double L Vineyard Hat Trick,95,65.0,California,Santa Lucia Highlands,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Morgan
530,US,"This longstanding collaboration between vintner and grower reflects years of mutual understanding and respect. The wine offers pretty orange blossom and lemon verbena aromas that wrap around a composed, well-integrated and mineral-laden body. Voluptuous, the wine is also well-balanced, finishing in bright acidity. It is deliciously good.",Hyde Vineyard,96,65.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Chardonnay,Ramey
531,US,"This is the costliest of Stolpman's new reds and easily the best. It impresses for the depth of flavor and classic, dense structure. A co-fermented blend of Sangiovese and Syrah, it shows imposingly complex layers of dark stone fruits and berries, dark chocolate, bacon, dusty Indian spices and sweet, smoky sandalwood, wrapped into powerfully rich but gently ground tannins. Very fine, approaching the profound. Now–2013 before it loses freshness.",La Croce,96,66.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Red Blend,Stolpman
532,US,"Intriguing scents focus upon chamomile and Mediterranean herbs, while the fruit flavors are wild and brambly. Cherry candy and red licorice play broadly across the palate, lingering through a beautifully balanced and extended finish.",Père de Famille,95,68.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
533,US,"As good as any Père de Famille to date, this brilliantly crafted wine jumps from the glass immediately with a rainbow of blue, purple and black fruits. The scents and flavors are dense and seamless, the tannins polished and graceful, and the barrel aging puts the last dabs of paint on a winemaking masterpiece.",Père de Famille,97,68.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Betz Family
534,US,"Seductively smooth and intriguingly aromatic, this blend of several knock-out vineyards along Westside Road—Allen, Bacigalupi, Bucher, Rochioli Riverblock and Williams Selyem Estate—is instantly delicious, sharing a concentration of cherry, strawberry and citrus that perfectly captures the essence of the fruit, accented by a tease of black tea. An earthy minerality wraps around dry, polished tannins, with a streak of just-right acidity, giving it a realm of juiciness and flavorful sophistication. Enjoy through 2023.",Westside Road Neighbors,98,69.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
535,US,"A real success story for this hot vintage. Feels gracious and generous in the mouth, offering complex, fat flavors of blackberries, cherries, raspberries, mocha and cedar that turn spicy on the finish. The tannins are elaborately ripe and fine. The well-known vineyard is on the Rutherford bench, and production was 2,300 cases. Drinkable now, and should age well for at least a decade.",Sycamore Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Freemark Abbey
536,US,"A brilliant brut, comprised of Pinot Noir and Chardonnay. It displays the qualities of dryness and yeastiness, with complex flavors of limes, vanilla and a touch of raspberry. The mousse is very fine, while the acidity is extraordinarily clean and brisk. Beautiful now, and should age for many years.",Brut,95,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Schramsberg
537,US,"A spectacular Pinot Noir, but you don't want to open it anytime soon. Shows the pedigree of this vineyard, a superbly balanced wine rich in acidity and minerals. The fruit? Black and red cherries, blackberries, cola, cocoa powder and red currants, enriched with smoky cedarwood. Beautiful, but needs time. The window is 2011–2013.",Fiddlestix Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Paul Lato
538,US,"So enormously delicious, it will be hard to keep from drinking this gorgeous Cabernet right away, and that's just fine. It's composed of the most intensly concentrated flavors of blueberries and blackberries—dense, pure and slightly heady with a liqueur-like alcohol. The tannins are classic Diamond Mountain, firm and minerally, while oak plays the perfect role of the buttered toast and sweetly charred supporting character. Despite its immediate attraction, it's best cellared for 6–8 years, at the very least. Fans of old Cabernets will still be loving it in 2029.",Estate Vineyard,98,70.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Von Strasser
539,US,"This En Chamberlin vineyard offering has never been better. Simply spectacular Cabernet Sauvignon, pure and focused and textural and terroirdriven. A low yield, pure varietal wine, it is immensely concentrated, deeply flavored with cassis, cherry, and berry fruit that is substantial and detailed, with a light dappling of dried herb, chocolate powder, licorice and dark, earthy components typical of Cayuse.",Widowmaker,98,70.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Cayuse
540,US,"This single-vineyard Pinot Noir shows fine coastal acidity and dryness, and a transparency of taste that comes from the terroir. It's very delicious, with jammy raspberry and cherry fruit flavors enriched with oaky vanillins and smoky, buttery caramel. Gorgeous and compelling, combining power and nuance, it's a wine to drink now and through 2015, at least.",Terra de Promissio,95,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
541,US,"A great Pinot Noir, although it's rugged now in its youth, with a scoury mouthfeel. Raspberries, cherries, cola, mushrooms splashed with balsamic, and white pepper, clove and cinnamon spices mark the flavors. Should emerge from austerity by 2015 and provide good drinking for several years afterward.",Rosemary's Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Talley
542,US,"An enormously rich Pinot Nor, stunningly delicious. Hard to imagine a California Pinot offering more opulent notes at such a young age. Dazzles with raspberry and cherry pie filling, vanilla, toast and scads of spices, and feels so soft, so silky, yet finishes so dry. Really a stunner. Should glidepath through the next six years, gradually growing mushroomy.",Quail Hill Vineyard Summit,96,70.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
543,US,"Superb, opulent, just wonderful. Hard to exaggerate the beauty of this 100% Cabernet Sauvignon. Fantastically ripe and rich in black cherries, currants, sandalwood and spices, with a grounding streak of herbs. Beyond the flavors is the near-perfect structure, marked by smooth, complex tannins. Finishes sweet but completely dry, the paradox of a great wine. Drink now–2015.",Highlands Estates Trace Ridge,96,70.0,California,Knights Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kendall-Jackson
544,US,"Drier and earthier than many Napa Cabs these days, this wine has subtle sage and sweet licorice that grounds its fruitier flavors of blackberries, cherries and raspberries. Very beautiful are the tannins, which are rich and pure, suggesting perfect ripeness. The small Bosché bottling has been a premier one for the winery for many years, and this '05 is one of the best in memory. Should age effortlessly for at least a dozen years.",Bosché,95,70.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Freemark Abbey
545,US,"The winery rarely produces single-vineyard bubblies, so when they do, it's because their team believes in the bottling. And when you taste this 100% Chardonnay, you understand why. It's dry and rich in acidity, with yeasty lees and toast that frame gorgeous tangerine, Meyer lemon, lime and vanilla bean flavors. The mousse is ultrarefined, making it great for drinking now. This sparking wine could age until at least 2024, gradually losing effervescence and primary fruit but gaining in subtlety.",Tognetti Vineyard Brut,96,70.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Schramsberg
546,US,"From Northridge Vineyard grapes, this mix of four clones spent more than two years in barrel. Tremendous depth and complexity are apparent on the nose, and there is no let-down on the palate. It's a seriously powerful wine, with muscle and magic. It opens generously into beautifully integrated layers of ripe fruit, confection, candied rind, cacao and a finishing touch of minerality.",The Hidden,97,70.0,Washington,Wahluke Slope,Columbia Valley,Syrah,K Vintners
547,US,"This is a gorgeous wine, a blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Petit Verdot and Cabernet Franc. It's light and delicate, but powerful, and boasts delicious cherry pie, cassis, cocoa, char and spice flavors. It possesses the kind of tannins that are soft and sweet now, but firm enough to hold the wine for many years. Best now, or anytime through 2015.",T-bar-T Benchmark,96,70.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Blend,Iron Horse
548,US,"Let the conversations about minerality begin. Whatever it is, or wherever it comes from, it's here big time, adding a lick of steel and a metallic mouthfeel to the underlying fruit. And what powerful fruit it is, ranging from orange and guava to honeydew and citron. This bone dry, crisp Chardonnay is a game changer that will make you look at California Chardonnay differently.",Moon Select,97,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Flowers
549,US,"A spectacular Pinot Noir, but you don't want to open it anytime soon. Shows the pedigree of this vineyard, a superbly balanced wine rich in acidity and minerals. The fruit? Black and red cherries, blackberries, cola, cocoa powder and red currants, enriched with smoky cedarwood. Beautiful, but needs time. The window is 2011–2013.",Fiddlestix Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Paul Lato
550,US,"A tremendous Cabernet, pure and refined, and undoubtedly the beneficiary of its great vintage. It's dry and elegant, with the slightly herbal tinge and soft tannins that Alexander Valley invariably lends. Yet the flavor profile is dominated by delicious, oak-inspired blackberries, cherries and currants. Brilliant and beautiful, and should develop for many years.",Vyborny Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
551,US,"An awesome Chardonnay that gives everything you want in richness, yet frames it in a structural integrity rare in California. Dazzles with tropical fruit, green apple and pear flavors, with a brilliant overlay of oak that adds buttered toast and spice flavors, not to mention sturdy oak tannins. But it's the zesty acidity, like a squirt of lime juice, that really elevates this wine.",Ulises Valdez Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Paul Hobbs
552,US,"The wine begins to change immediately; as soon as the cork is pulled the bouquet emerges and begins to evolve. Thin layers of scent and flavor are stacked, with rose petals on top, then supremely dense with darker layers of smoke, graphite, ash, mushroom, black fruits. The tannins never stick out and the flavors just keep on going, bringing in cured meats, mocha, and on and on.",Armada Vineyard,97,70.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
553,US,"It's amazing how rich this is, given the pale, translucent ruby color. Waves of cherries, raspberries, roasted hazelnuts, cola, pomegranates, herb tea, dusty Asian spices and smoky oak change constantly in the glass, as the wine breathes and endlessly fascinates. Bone-dry and tartly crisp, the wine will develop bottle complexities over the next eight years.",Rochioli-Allen Vineyards,95,70.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Gary Farrell
554,US,"Delicately light yet showing a fascinating amount of character on both the nose and palate, this bottling by winemaker Nathan Kandler offers aromas of lightly pressed cherries, purple sage, juniper, eucalyptus oil and a hint of mushrooms. The sip sings with cola, raspberries, pencil lead, morel mushrooms and forest-floor flavorings.",Razorback Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Santa Cruz Mountains,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Thomas Fogarty
555,US,"Tantara's nine new Pinot Noirs are all fabulous, but the Gwendolyn is their best. It is, in a word, gorgeous. Brisk in acidity, balanced in alcohol and oak, it displays a complex array of flavors, ranging from black cherries and cola to pomegranates, rhubarbs, persimmons and sweet currants. For all the power, it feels as delicate as a rose petal. Drink this lush wine now and over the next 10 years.",Gwendolyn,95,70.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Tantara
556,US,"Let the conversations about minerality begin. Whatever it is, or wherever it comes from, it's here big time, adding a lick of steel and a metallic mouthfeel to the underlying fruit. And what powerful fruit it is, ranging from orange and guava to honeydew and citron. This bone dry, crisp Chardonnay is a game changer that will make you look at California Chardonnay differently.",Moon Select,97,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Flowers
557,US,"A brilliant brut, comprised of Pinot Noir and Chardonnay. It displays the qualities of dryness and yeastiness, with complex flavors of limes, vanilla and a touch of raspberry. The mousse is very fine, while the acidity is extraordinarily clean and brisk. Beautiful now, and should age for many years.",Brut,95,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Schramsberg
558,US,"This is really a spectacular wine. It's hard to say why it's so superior to Krutz's 2005 bottling, but it's richer and more elegant in every respect. Combines immense power with great finesse. The refined essence of blackberries, black currants and spices thrills the palate, accented with the most beautiful coating of smoky oak. A great achievement that should develop in the bottle through 2018.",Stagecoach Vineyard,97,70.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Krutz
559,US,"A real success story for this hot vintage. Feels gracious and generous in the mouth, offering complex, fat flavors of blackberries, cherries, raspberries, mocha and cedar that turn spicy on the finish. The tannins are elaborately ripe and fine. The well-known vineyard is on the Rutherford bench, and production was 2,300 cases. Drinkable now, and should age well for at least a decade.",Sycamore Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Freemark Abbey
560,US,"This is really a spectacular wine. It's hard to say why it's so superior to Krutz's 2005 bottling, but it's richer and more elegant in every respect. Combines immense power with great finesse. The refined essence of blackberries, black currants and spices thrills the palate, accented with the most beautiful coating of smoky oak. A great achievement that should develop in the bottle through 2018.",Stagecoach Vineyard,97,70.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Krutz
561,US,"No doubt about it, this is a big, lusty Pinot Noir. From a low-production parcel of the estate, it routinely produces immensely concentrated wines. The winemaker's challenge is to give balance and harmony to grapes of this heft, and here, Iron Horse has it figured out. Dry and enormously ripe in cherries, black raspberries, cocoa and cola, it's good now with lamb chops, grilled steaks and similar upscale fare, and should soften and improve for five years.",Thomas Road,95,70.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Iron Horse
562,US,"This is a great 2005 Pinot Noir, the best ever from Talley. The wine somehow combines huge ripe fruit with delicacy. It floods the mouth with profound currant, cherry pie, licorice, cola, raspberry, cocoa and vanilla smoke flavors, yet feels light and silky, and is thoroughly dry. That's the magic of Pinot Noir. You can enjoy this small production wine now, and it should develop additional complexities for 10 years.",Rosemary's Vineyard,97,70.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Talley
563,US,"No doubt about it, this is a big, lusty Pinot Noir. From a low-production parcel of the estate, it routinely produces immensely concentrated wines. The winemaker's challenge is to give balance and harmony to grapes of this heft, and here, Iron Horse has it figured out. Dry and enormously ripe in cherries, black raspberries, cocoa and cola, it's good now with lamb chops, grilled steaks and similar upscale fare, and should soften and improve for five years.",Thomas Road,95,70.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Iron Horse
564,US,"A brilliant brut, comprised of Pinot Noir and Chardonnay. It displays the qualities of dryness and yeastiness, with complex flavors of limes, vanilla and a touch of raspberry. The mousse is very fine, while the acidity is extraordinarily clean and brisk. Beautiful now, and should age for many years.",Brut,95,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Schramsberg
565,US,"Tasted with Baldacci's regular Cab, this is a slightly tougher, less immediately opulent wine. The fruit is there, but the tannic structure makes it less accessible. Lush plum and prune flavors coat the palate, dusted with oaky notes of chocolate and smoke. Winemaker Rolando Herrera worked at Stag's Leap Wine Cellars as well as with Paul Hobbs, and he clearly knows his stuff. If you can cellar this 100% Cab though 2010, good for you, because it's just so rewarding now.",Brenda's Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Baldacci
566,US,"The wine begins to change immediately; as soon as the cork is pulled the bouquet emerges and begins to evolve. Thin layers of scent and flavor are stacked, with rose petals on top, then supremely dense with darker layers of smoke, graphite, ash, mushroom, black fruits. The tannins never stick out and the flavors just keep on going, bringing in cured meats, mocha, and on and on.",Armada Vineyard,97,70.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
567,US,"An awesome Chardonnay that gives everything you want in richness, yet frames it in a structural integrity rare in California. Dazzles with tropical fruit, green apple and pear flavors, with a brilliant overlay of oak that adds buttered toast and spice flavors, not to mention sturdy oak tannins. But it's the zesty acidity, like a squirt of lime juice, that really elevates this wine.",Ulises Valdez Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Paul Hobbs
568,US,"Tasted with Baldacci's regular Cab, this is a slightly tougher, less immediately opulent wine. The fruit is there, but the tannic structure makes it less accessible. Lush plum and prune flavors coat the palate, dusted with oaky notes of chocolate and smoke. Winemaker Rolando Herrera worked at Stag's Leap Wine Cellars as well as with Paul Hobbs, and he clearly knows his stuff. If you can cellar this 100% Cab though 2010, good for you, because it's just so rewarding now.",Brenda's Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Baldacci
569,US,"A sensational Cab that exhibits power and opulence in the ripe blackcurrant, cherry, cocoa and new oak flavors, yet is subtlely balanced and harmonious. Showcases preternaturally gorgeous tannins, soft and sweet. The more you sip, the greater the impression.",Reserve,95,70.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Whitehall Lane
570,US,"Exceptionally delicious to drink now, this is rich, vibrant and complex. It offers wave after wave of raspberry and cherry pie filling, rose tea, mineral and smoky sandalwood flavors, which are all wrapped into an incredibly fine texture of complex tannins and vibrant acids. The finish is dry and graceful. It's tough to keep your hands off of this wine, but it should hold in the bottle for 6–8 years, gradually losing fruit and gaining earthy, mushroomy complexities.",Rosemary's Vineyard,96,70.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Talley
571,US,"A tremendous Cabernet, pure and refined, and undoubtedly the beneficiary of its great vintage. It's dry and elegant, with the slightly herbal tinge and soft tannins that Alexander Valley invariably lends. Yet the flavor profile is dominated by delicious, oak-inspired blackberries, cherries and currants. Brilliant and beautiful, and should develop for many years.",Vyborny Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
572,US,"This luscious Pinot shows the appellation's ability to perfectly ripen the fruit while maintaining complete balance. The flavors are of cherries, raspberries, currants and cola, with nuances of licorice and gingerbread, yet for all that the finish is totally dry. So powerful is the wine in itself that it easily shoulders the 100% new French oak, which pushes the richness into a smoky, ne plus ultra territory. As for the mouthfeel, it's silky, racy, voluptuous and delicate at the same time, the hallmarks of the very finest California Pinot Noirs.",The Narrows Vineyard,96,70.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
573,US,"It's amazing how rich this is, given the pale, translucent ruby color. Waves of cherries, raspberries, roasted hazelnuts, cola, pomegranates, herb tea, dusty Asian spices and smoky oak change constantly in the glass, as the wine breathes and endlessly fascinates. Bone-dry and tartly crisp, the wine will develop bottle complexities over the next eight years.",Rochioli-Allen Vineyards,95,70.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Gary Farrell
574,US,"No doubt about it, this is a big, lusty Pinot Noir. From a low-production parcel of the estate, it routinely produces immensely concentrated wines. The winemaker's challenge is to give balance and harmony to grapes of this heft, and here, Iron Horse has it figured out. Dry and enormously ripe in cherries, black raspberries, cocoa and cola, it's good now with lamb chops, grilled steaks and similar upscale fare, and should soften and improve for five years.",Thomas Road,95,70.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Iron Horse
575,US,"Delicately light yet showing a fascinating amount of character on both the nose and palate, this bottling by winemaker Nathan Kandler offers aromas of lightly pressed cherries, purple sage, juniper, eucalyptus oil and a hint of mushrooms. The sip sings with cola, raspberries, pencil lead, morel mushrooms and forest-floor flavorings.",Razorback Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Santa Cruz Mountains,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Thomas Fogarty
576,US,"From a selection of the original vines at this heritage vineyard, which was planted in the early 1970s, this is densely layered with strawberry, raspberry and cherry fruit. Details are well-integrated, bringing light notes of toasted coconut and caramel. The texture and mouthfeel express the little extras that old vines, when handled properly, can deliver.",Maresh Vineyard Red Barn Blocks,95,70.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Kelley Fox
577,US,"This small- production wine showcases the wild, feral and lonely personality of this winery's extreme coastal mountain location, offering the most exotic flavors that are hard to describe. Asian pears, pomegranates, Dr. Pepper cola, red currants, licorice, bacon and rare berries like mulberries and loganberries come to mind. It's softly delicious and drinkable now, yet has a firm acidic structure that suggests aging into the future. It will be fascinating to watch this wine develop over the next decade.",Vivien,97,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Failla
578,US,"An enormously rich Pinot Nor, stunningly delicious. Hard to imagine a California Pinot offering more opulent notes at such a young age. Dazzles with raspberry and cherry pie filling, vanilla, toast and scads of spices, and feels so soft, so silky, yet finishes so dry. Really a stunner. Should glidepath through the next six years, gradually growing mushroomy.",Quail Hill Vineyard Summit,96,70.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
579,US,"This is a great 2005 Pinot Noir, the best ever from Talley. The wine somehow combines huge ripe fruit with delicacy. It floods the mouth with profound currant, cherry pie, licorice, cola, raspberry, cocoa and vanilla smoke flavors, yet feels light and silky, and is thoroughly dry. That's the magic of Pinot Noir. You can enjoy this small production wine now, and it should develop additional complexities for 10 years.",Rosemary's Vineyard,97,70.0,California,Arroyo Grande Valley,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Talley
580,US,"This single-vineyard Pinot Noir shows fine coastal acidity and dryness, and a transparency of taste that comes from the terroir. It's very delicious, with jammy raspberry and cherry fruit flavors enriched with oaky vanillins and smoky, buttery caramel. Gorgeous and compelling, combining power and nuance, it's a wine to drink now and through 2015, at least.",Terra de Promissio,95,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
581,US,"Drier and earthier than many Napa Cabs these days, this wine has subtle sage and sweet licorice that grounds its fruitier flavors of blackberries, cherries and raspberries. Very beautiful are the tannins, which are rich and pure, suggesting perfect ripeness. The small Bosché bottling has been a premier one for the winery for many years, and this '05 is one of the best in memory. Should age effortlessly for at least a dozen years.",Bosché,95,70.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Freemark Abbey
582,US,"Very rich, ripe and complex, showing a near-perfect display of flavors and textures. The riper blackberries and black cherries have a chewy, meaty edge, with notes of cola and bacon. Very fine tannins and acidity suggest midterm to longterm aging, but it's a splendid sipper now. Should develop through 2018, at least.",Bosche,95,70.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Freemark Abbey
583,US,"This is really a spectacular wine. It's hard to say why it's so superior to Krutz's 2005 bottling, but it's richer and more elegant in every respect. Combines immense power with great finesse. The refined essence of blackberries, black currants and spices thrills the palate, accented with the most beautiful coating of smoky oak. A great achievement that should develop in the bottle through 2018.",Stagecoach Vineyard,97,70.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Krutz
584,US,"This En Chamberlin vineyard offering has never been better. Simply spectacular Cabernet Sauvignon, pure and focused and textural and terroirdriven. A low yield, pure varietal wine, it is immensely concentrated, deeply flavored with cassis, cherry, and berry fruit that is substantial and detailed, with a light dappling of dried herb, chocolate powder, licorice and dark, earthy components typical of Cayuse.",Widowmaker,98,70.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Cayuse
585,US,"Drier and earthier than many Napa Cabs these days, this wine has subtle sage and sweet licorice that grounds its fruitier flavors of blackberries, cherries and raspberries. Very beautiful are the tannins, which are rich and pure, suggesting perfect ripeness. The small Bosché bottling has been a premier one for the winery for many years, and this '05 is one of the best in memory. Should age effortlessly for at least a dozen years.",Bosché,95,70.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Freemark Abbey
586,US,"Superb, opulent, just wonderful. Hard to exaggerate the beauty of this 100% Cabernet Sauvignon. Fantastically ripe and rich in black cherries, currants, sandalwood and spices, with a grounding streak of herbs. Beyond the flavors is the near-perfect structure, marked by smooth, complex tannins. Finishes sweet but completely dry, the paradox of a great wine. Drink now–2015.",Highlands Estates Trace Ridge,96,70.0,California,Knights Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kendall-Jackson
587,US,"Superb, opulent, just wonderful. Hard to exaggerate the beauty of this 100% Cabernet Sauvignon. Fantastically ripe and rich in black cherries, currants, sandalwood and spices, with a grounding streak of herbs. Beyond the flavors is the near-perfect structure, marked by smooth, complex tannins. Finishes sweet but completely dry, the paradox of a great wine. Drink now–2015.",Highlands Estates Trace Ridge,96,70.0,California,Knights Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kendall-Jackson
588,US,"This En Chamberlin vineyard offering has never been better. Simply spectacular Cabernet Sauvignon, pure and focused and textural and terroirdriven. A low yield, pure varietal wine, it is immensely concentrated, deeply flavored with cassis, cherry, and berry fruit that is substantial and detailed, with a light dappling of dried herb, chocolate powder, licorice and dark, earthy components typical of Cayuse.",Widowmaker,98,70.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Cayuse
589,US,"A tremendous Cabernet, pure and refined, and undoubtedly the beneficiary of its great vintage. It's dry and elegant, with the slightly herbal tinge and soft tannins that Alexander Valley invariably lends. Yet the flavor profile is dominated by delicious, oak-inspired blackberries, cherries and currants. Brilliant and beautiful, and should develop for many years.",Vyborny Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
590,US,"A cool climate has given this wine bracing acidity and gentle-yet-persistent tannins. Its flavors of wild raspberries and cherries, with spice and mineral overtones, are delicious. There's a feral quality that expresses umami perfectly, suggesting butter-sautéed, tamari-splashed mushrooms and crisped prosciutto. The oak is powerful and present in the form of toast and sweet vanilla, but perfectly balanced with the wine's volume. For all its richness, the wine finishes bone dry. Drink this impeccable Pinot Noir now through 2020.",Sea View Ridge Estate Vineyard,98,70.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Flowers
591,US,"An extraordinarily lush, dramatic Pinot Noir. Dense and full-bodied, it shows flashy flavors of black and red berries, currants, cola, pomegranates and dusty spices, enhanced with the most perfect application of smoky oak and wrapped into a rich, silky texture. The balance is exquisite, a tension of acidity and tannins. Beautiful now, and should develop bottle complexity for at least six years.",Hawk Hill Vineyard,97,70.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
592,US,"An awesome Chardonnay that gives everything you want in richness, yet frames it in a structural integrity rare in California. Dazzles with tropical fruit, green apple and pear flavors, with a brilliant overlay of oak that adds buttered toast and spice flavors, not to mention sturdy oak tannins. But it's the zesty acidity, like a squirt of lime juice, that really elevates this wine.",Ulises Valdez Vineyard,95,70.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Paul Hobbs
593,US,"The wine begins to change immediately; as soon as the cork is pulled the bouquet emerges and begins to evolve. Thin layers of scent and flavor are stacked, with rose petals on top, then supremely dense with darker layers of smoke, graphite, ash, mushroom, black fruits. The tannins never stick out and the flavors just keep on going, bringing in cured meats, mocha, and on and on.",Armada Vineyard,97,70.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
594,US,"The Block One Cab from the Champoux vineyard (in Washington's Horse Heaven Hills AVA) is one of Washington's gold-plated, old vine sites, and the wineries who get that fruit are equally special. Power, texture and pure pleasure combine here, a seductive mélange of black cherry, cassis, plum, coffee, chocolate and spice. Tannins are ripe, fine-grained, and have the weight to balance the fruit and oak. A triumph of vineyard and winemaker.",Block One,95,72.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sineann
595,US,"Dazzles with richness, offering waves of candied, tart raspberry and cherry fruit, Dr. Pepper, exotic Indian spice, rose petal and sandalwood flavors, as well as undefinable feral things. Absolutely dry and high in acidity, with overwhelming complexity, it's a milestone. Drink now through 2014; could go way beyond.",Hirsch Vineyard,97,72.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
596,US,"A brilliant wine. Racy in acidity, silky in texture, yet powerful, it exudes the essence of Pinot Noir's greatness. Shows great fruity ripeness in the cherry, Dr. Pepper cola, licorice and bacon flavors, and also a wild, forest quality of grilled mushrooms, thyme and fennel. Absolutely dry, with a firm spine of tannins, the structure is near perfect. A divine expression of Hirsch, and a good candidate for six years in the cellar.",Hirsch Vineyard,97,72.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
597,US,"The Block One Cab from the Champoux vineyard (in Washington's Horse Heaven Hills AVA) is one of Washington's gold-plated, old vine sites, and the wineries who get that fruit are equally special. Power, texture and pure pleasure combine here, a seductive mélange of black cherry, cassis, plum, coffee, chocolate and spice. Tannins are ripe, fine-grained, and have the weight to balance the fruit and oak. A triumph of vineyard and winemaker.",Block One,95,72.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sineann
598,US,"Seductive and velvety, this concentrated Pinot Noir is richly layered in raspberry cherry cordial, cardamom and cola flavors. Pine and allspice notes contribute a homey spiciness as as the fullness of the wine lingers into a long finish.",Year of the Horse Single Vineyard,95,72.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Donum
599,US,"This is Sineann's first reserve, a limited release from some old vine blocks from one of Oregon's greatest Pinot vineyards, now fully biodynamic. As good as the “regular” Resonance is, this ramps it up another notch or two. The fruit ranges from cherry to prune; the acids are perfect, the barrel notes so well-concealed that you cannot separate them out. Streaks of cherry, fig, coffee, smoke, chocolate, bourbon, caramel—where do you stop? It just goes and goes. Phenomenal winemaking.",Resonance Reserve,96,72.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Sineann
600,US,"Dazzles with richness, offering waves of candied, tart raspberry and cherry fruit, Dr. Pepper, exotic Indian spice, rose petal and sandalwood flavors, as well as undefinable feral things. Absolutely dry and high in acidity, with overwhelming complexity, it's a milestone. Drink now through 2014; could go way beyond.",Hirsch Vineyard,97,72.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
601,US,"A brilliant wine. Racy in acidity, silky in texture, yet powerful, it exudes the essence of Pinot Noir's greatness. Shows great fruity ripeness in the cherry, Dr. Pepper cola, licorice and bacon flavors, and also a wild, forest quality of grilled mushrooms, thyme and fennel. Absolutely dry, with a firm spine of tannins, the structure is near perfect. A divine expression of Hirsch, and a good candidate for six years in the cellar.",Hirsch Vineyard,97,72.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
602,US,"Fermented to a plus-size 15.4% alcohol, this rare wine from one of Washington's oldest and best Cabernet vineyards shows what a gifted winemaker can do with great fruit. The play of flavors, mixing red and purple fruits, toasted nuts, mocha, caramel, bark and earth, is exceptional. The detail is extraordinary for a wine with such high alcohol. The acids and tannins are seamless and fine, and the flavors extend into an unusual finish that suggests menthol and eucalyptus – not generally a character found in Champoux fruit. All in all it's a wonderful voyage, and one of a handful of essential Washington wines.",Block One Champoux Vineyard,95,72.0,Oregon,Columbia Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sineann
603,US,"Fermented to a plus-size 15.4% alcohol, this rare wine from one of Washington's oldest and best Cabernet vineyards shows what a gifted winemaker can do with great fruit. The play of flavors, mixing red and purple fruits, toasted nuts, mocha, caramel, bark and earth, is exceptional. The detail is extraordinary for a wine with such high alcohol. The acids and tannins are seamless and fine, and the flavors extend into an unusual finish that suggests menthol and eucalyptus – not generally a character found in Champoux fruit. All in all it's a wonderful voyage, and one of a handful of essential Washington wines.",Block One Champoux Vineyard,95,72.0,Oregon,Columbia Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sineann
604,US,"This is Sineann's first reserve, a limited release from some old vine blocks from one of Oregon's greatest Pinot vineyards, now fully biodynamic. As good as the “regular” Resonance is, this ramps it up another notch or two. The fruit ranges from cherry to prune; the acids are perfect, the barrel notes so well-concealed that you cannot separate them out. Streaks of cherry, fig, coffee, smoke, chocolate, bourbon, caramel—where do you stop? It just goes and goes. Phenomenal winemaking.",Resonance Reserve,96,72.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Sineann
605,US,"A terrific Napa Cabernet, dry and smooth and tremendously layered in flavors. Blackberries, blueberries, currants, crême de cassis, anise, dark chocolate and cedar flood the palate and are just delicious. Best of all is the structure, so rich in firm tannins and acidity. Wonderful now, and should develop for at least a decade.",Corley Reserve,95,72.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Monticello Vineyards
606,US,"The Block One Cab from the Champoux vineyard (in Washington's Horse Heaven Hills AVA) is one of Washington's gold-plated, old vine sites, and the wineries who get that fruit are equally special. Power, texture and pure pleasure combine here, a seductive mélange of black cherry, cassis, plum, coffee, chocolate and spice. Tannins are ripe, fine-grained, and have the weight to balance the fruit and oak. A triumph of vineyard and winemaker.",Block One,95,72.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sineann
607,US,"Dazzles with richness, offering waves of candied, tart raspberry and cherry fruit, Dr. Pepper, exotic Indian spice, rose petal and sandalwood flavors, as well as undefinable feral things. Absolutely dry and high in acidity, with overwhelming complexity, it's a milestone. Drink now through 2014; could go way beyond.",Hirsch Vineyard,97,72.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
608,US,"Full-bodied and exuberant in lush tannins, this black Shiraz is concentrated and rich in hearty leather, espresso and black tea yet buoyed by lively acidity and beautiful streaks of black and white pepper. Enjoy now or through 2021.",Signature Series,95,74.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Shiraz,Darioush
609,US,"This is a big Pinot Noir, dark and full bodied and juicy in pomegranates, cherries, red plums and sautéed wild mushrooms, and the interplay of oak with fruit even yields richer notes of milk chocolate. It's devastatingly good, but also too young and fresh now to show its best. With its fine tannins and exquisite balance, this articulate young wine should be best after 2013.",The Narrows Vineyard,96,75.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
610,US,"This vineyard is a magical site, one of the greatest Oregon Pinot vineyards. The wine has the majestic plumpness of grand cru Burgundy, with potent cherry fruit, laced with sweet spices, that seems to expand through a generous midpalate and keep on keeping on as long as you are paying attention.",Winderlea Vineyard,96,75.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Adelsheim
611,US,"This is a blend of 57% Cabernet Sauvignon, 21% Petit Verdot, 8% Cabernet Franc, 7% Malbec and 7% Merlot. A masterpiece of blending, it has myriad pinpoint details, from the nose of flowers and berries, to the mouthfilling mélange of red and black fruits and finishing highlights of pepper and Asian spice. A precise, complex, elegant and powerful   Pentad with tremendous length, it represents the pinnacle of vintner Casey McClellan's 25 years of winemaking.",Pentad Red Wine,96,75.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Seven Hills
612,US,"A spectacular Pinot, continuing a string of great vintages from this little vineyard. The year 2007 gave California supernaturally rich but balanced Pinot Noirs, and this is one of them. It's sensational, offering broad, exotic fruit flavors, pinpointed with exotic spices, and exquisitely highlighted with French oak. Truly fine, this small-production wine should age over the next 6–8 years.",Confluence Vineyard,97,75.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
613,US,"A dazzlingly good Pinot Noir. Hard to exaggerate the precision of flavor and structure. Shows the massively ripe character of the vintage, with a starburst of raspberries, cherries, cola, minerals and spices, while the acidity and tannins are just about perfect. This crowd pleaser is just extraordinary now, and should develop in the bottle over the next six years.",Precioso,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Keller Estate
614,US,"This is a big Pinot Noir, dark and full bodied and juicy in pomegranates, cherries, red plums and sautéed wild mushrooms, and the interplay of oak with fruit even yields richer notes of milk chocolate. It's devastatingly good, but also too young and fresh now to show its best. With its fine tannins and exquisite balance, this articulate young wine should be best after 2013.",The Narrows Vineyard,96,75.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
615,US,"A dazzlingly good Pinot Noir. Hard to exaggerate the precision of flavor and structure. Shows the massively ripe character of the vintage, with a starburst of raspberries, cherries, cola, minerals and spices, while the acidity and tannins are just about perfect. This crowd pleaser is just extraordinary now, and should develop in the bottle over the next six years.",Precioso,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Keller Estate
616,US,"An extraordinary Chardonnay whose complicated richness is balanced with tight acidity and a firm grounding of stony minerals. Brings to mind a great Chablis, with its zesty tang followed by elaborate layers of tropical fruits and pears. Utterly delicious, wildly appealing, a wine that will develop bottle interest over the next six years. Only 97 cases were produced.",Precioso,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Keller Estate
617,US,"One sip is all it takes to be blown away by this Pinot's beauty. It's exquisitely crafted, a testament to both the vineyard and the winery's oenological talent. The palate is bright and tangy with acidity, and incredibly complex flavors of wild berries, mushrooms, balsam, cola and Asian spices. It's dramatic now, but will continue to improve for at least 15 years.",Hirsch Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
618,US,"Soft and ripe enough to drink now, after a decent decanting, it shows pure raspberry, blueberry and cherry fruit flavors, subtlely accented with cola and baking spices, and all of it wrapped into thick but smooth tannins. Good as it is, it will gain traction over the next 15 years.",Hirsch Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
619,US,"An extraordinary Chardonnay whose complicated richness is balanced with tight acidity and a firm grounding of stony minerals. Brings to mind a great Chablis, with its zesty tang followed by elaborate layers of tropical fruits and pears. Utterly delicious, wildly appealing, a wine that will develop bottle interest over the next six years. Only 97 cases were produced.",Precioso,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Keller Estate
620,US,"This bottling, from the vineyard high up on Atlas Peak, is establishing itself as a real benchmark. The '07 is smooth and rich and vast in flavor, offering waves of blackberries, cherry pie, cassis and blackstrap molasses, with a delicious coating of sweet, smoky oak. It's impressive in youth, but so balanced, it should easily negotiate the years.",Stagecoach Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Krutz
621,US,"Made from 100% Sauvignon Blanc, with a great many vines more than 50 years old, this is an enormously complex wine. Fruit doesn't dominate. Flowers and minerals do, with flavors of stones, herbs and earth. What fruit there is brings to mind tart limes and lemons, perhaps white apricots and peaches, with peppery Asian spice accents. Has the weight of a great red wine, and is bone dry. Don't drink it too cold. Will age for a long time, perhaps a decade, in a cool cellar.",To Kalon Vineyard I Block,95,75.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Fumé Blanc,Robert Mondavi
622,US,"So rich and complex, so decadently delicious, you want to drink the whole bottle. Takes the blackberries and black currants of Cabernet Sauvignon, merges them with Syrah's bacon and pepper, flirts with Grenache's cherries, and then uplifts it all with Viognier's citrusy brightness and acidity. A compelling wine that will hold through 2013.",The Devil & The Deep Blue Sea,95,75.0,California,California,California Other,Red Blend,Sanguis
623,US,"The Donum Estate Vineyard has been producing some of Carneros's best Pinot Noirs of late. This is a complex bottling, with notes of raspberry jam and vanilla, and the mouthfeel is pleasingly tart. Production was only 55 cases, but it's worth a special search.",Donum Estate Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,La Rochelle
624,US,"Nearly all Syrah, with a splash of Viognier, this wine comes from some of the best vineyards in the Santa Ynez and Los Alamos Valleys, including the Happy Canyon area. It's a dramatic glass of red wine, bone dry and fairly tannic, with vast, intricate flavors of blackberries, black currants, teriaki beef, cherries, red licorice, cola, dark chocolate and toast. The Viognier brings a brightening dash of citrus and acidity. An extraordinary wine that will drink well through 2014.",As The Crow Flies,96,75.0,California,California,California Other,Syrah,Sanguis
625,US,"A very fine Cabernet that combines the modern cult style of ripeness with old-fashioned structure to produce a wine of exceptional appeal. It's rich in mountain-intense black currants, bitter chocolate, spices and smoky oak, wrapped into splendid tannins, and the finish is thoroughly dry. The grapes are from the Sonoma side of Spring Mountain, and the winemaker was veteran Marco DiGiulio. Now–2013.",55% Slope,95,75.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hidden Ridge
626,US,"Pretty much as good as any Cabernet out there, if not better, and at a fraction of the price you'll pay for the “cults.” If there was ever a wine made for the cellar, it's this one, the antidote for those who consider California Cabernet a simple fruit bomb. Completely dry, with exquisite tannins, its blackberry, currant, red licorice and oak-inspired flavors are massive and classic. Hard to exaggerate how good this fine wine is. Drink 2013–2020 and beyond.",Black Cougar Ridge,97,75.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stonestreet
627,US,"Made from 100% Sauvignon Blanc, with a great many vines more than 50 years old, this is an enormously complex wine. Fruit doesn't dominate. Flowers and minerals do, with flavors of stones, herbs and earth. What fruit there is brings to mind tart limes and lemons, perhaps white apricots and peaches, with peppery Asian spice accents. Has the weight of a great red wine, and is bone dry. Don't drink it too cold. Will age for a long time, perhaps a decade, in a cool cellar.",To Kalon Vineyard I Block,95,75.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Fumé Blanc,Robert Mondavi
628,US,"Often considered the iconic Cayuse wine, this bears the cartoonish label with the leering frog, though it is a single-vineyard offering like the others. Initially showing some fat and sweetness, it is supple and textural, with the density that comes from a mix of flavors: pain grillé, smoke, umami, fungus, coffee grounds and dark fruits. A richly organic compendium of scents and flavors, with black tea tannins.",Bionic Frog,98,75.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
629,US,"This wine is an absolute joy to drink, and such a great expression of its Sonoma Coast vineyard. Its dryness, acidity and minerality highlight its terroir. Its texture is light and silky. Yet it's immensely complex in flavors, suggesting red cherry, licorice and exotic spices that are so rich, they're almost sweet in the finish. A tremendous Pinot Noir for drinking now, and it should develop in the bottle for a decade.",Camp Meeting Ridge Estate Vineyard,96,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Flowers
630,US,"The Donum Estate Vineyard has been producing some of Carneros's best Pinot Noirs of late. This is a complex bottling, with notes of raspberry jam and vanilla, and the mouthfeel is pleasingly tart. Production was only 55 cases, but it's worth a special search.",Donum Estate Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,La Rochelle
631,US,"Always one of Williams Selyem's top Pinot Noirs, the 2007 is a spectacular wine. The vines are the closest to the river in the famed Rochioli vineyard, and the resulting wine always has an elegant structure and fruity accessibility that make it drinkable at a younger age. Showing rich flavors of cherries, red currants, cola, bacon, anise, Asian spices and smoky oak, it will develop beautifully over the next decade.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,97,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
632,US,"Impresses for the sheer power of ripeness, but also and especially for the structure. The flavors of blackberries, cherries, currants, cocoa, herbs and sweetly smoked oak are beautiful and complex, yet the tannin-acid balance is near perfect. This single-vineyard wine is one of the finest Sonoma County Cabernets of the vintage. Should age effortlessly through 2014, growing purer and more elegant.",Rockaway,96,75.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Rodney Strong
633,US,"This is the most accessible, most interesting and most compelling of Sbragia's new Cabernets. It's extraordinarily powerful in the potent, sweetly refined tannins and ripe flavors of blackberries and cassis, leading to a long, rich finish. You can drink it now, but it will age effortlessly for a good 8–10 years.",Rancho Del Oso,95,75.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sbragia
634,US,"This has intensely concentrated flavors of black currant, blueberry preserves, violet, vanilla and buttered toast; it's as delicious as any Cabernet out there. The structure shows firm tannins and fine acidity, true to its mountainous origins. Keep this in your cellar for at least six years, and as many as 20.",55% Slope Impassable Mountain Reserve,95,75.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hidden Ridge
635,US,"Ed Sbragia is making some of the most interesting single-vineyard Cabernets in California. This one, from Howell Mountain, shows the density and power that typify all his wines. Although it's thoroughly dry, it tastes almost sweet in grilled blackberry marmalade flavors, balanced with good acidity and wonderfully fine tannins. Feels like it has the capacity to age for decades.",Cimarossa Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sbragia
636,US,"This is Cabernet Sauvignon lifted to greatness, an impeccable statement concerning this region of the high Mayacamas Mountains on the Sonoma side that, by law, is forced to bear a “valley” appellation. The wine is awesome, vast and complex, fascinating in every aspect, yet locked down in tough tannins that exaggerate the acidity, making the wine functionally undrinkable. It is a beautiful, classic Cabernet, very near perfect, and certainly one of the successes of the vintage. Don't even think of drinking it before 2014, and it should evolve in the bottle for a good 10 years after that.",Rockfall,99,75.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stonestreet
637,US,"This is always one of Williams Selyem's most complex, interesting wines. The ‘05 is especially layered, showing a silky, elegant mouthfeel that frames extraordinarily lush flavors of cherries, cola, pomegranates, root beer and dusty Asian spices. Dry and elegant, it's a gorgeous Pinot Noir now, and should develop bottle complexity through 2015.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
638,US,"Massive in chocolate, blackberry, blueberry and cherry jam intensity, this is a brilliant wine. It's so delicious that you'll want to drink the whole bottle. The inclusion of Cabernet Franc in the blend may be partly responsible for its accessibility. It's wonderful to drink now, despite having fine, firm tannins. Give it some decanting, and then watch as it changes in the glass with every sip.",Estate Grown,95,75.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Signorello
639,US,"Often considered the iconic Cayuse wine, this bears the cartoonish label with the leering frog, though it is a single-vineyard offering like the others. Initially showing some fat and sweetness, it is supple and textural, with the density that comes from a mix of flavors: pain grillé, smoke, umami, fungus, coffee grounds and dark fruits. A richly organic compendium of scents and flavors, with black tea tannins.",Bionic Frog,98,75.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
640,US,"A perennial standout, this Syrah is cofermented with 10% Viognier, all fruit sourced from a site on the western edge of Sonoma Mountain in the cool confines of the Petaluma Gap. Beautiful and bold, it imparts a focused line of blackberry and lavender flavors over a lush backdrop of sizzling acidity and smoked meat scents.",Rodgers Creek Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Syrah,Ramey
641,US,"This wine defines luxurious texture, at once velvety, richly layered and bright. From one of the warmer sites in a cool climate zone, it complements its fruit concentration with deeper sarsaparilla, vanilla, tea and cardamom scents, the finish delightfully playful in orange peel accents.",UV Lucky Well Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Arista
642,US,"Almost entirely Merlot, with a few drops of other Bordeaux varieties, this Howell Mountain red screams for time in the cellar. The tannins bite and dog the mouth through the long, astringent finish. But chew on it for a while and you hit a deep core of blackberries and currants, and the more the wine warms up in the glass, the more impressive it gets. Cellar until 2010, and it should reward for years after.",Red Wine,95,75.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Duckhorn
643,US,"This vineyard is a magical site, one of the greatest Oregon Pinot vineyards. The wine has the majestic plumpness of grand cru Burgundy, with potent cherry fruit, laced with sweet spices, that seems to expand through a generous midpalate and keep on keeping on as long as you are paying attention.",Winderlea Vineyard,96,75.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Adelsheim
644,US,"A spectacular Pinot, continuing a string of great vintages from this little vineyard. The year 2007 gave California supernaturally rich but balanced Pinot Noirs, and this is one of them. It's sensational, offering broad, exotic fruit flavors, pinpointed with exotic spices, and exquisitely highlighted with French oak. Truly fine, this small-production wine should age over the next 6–8 years.",Confluence Vineyard,97,75.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
645,US,"Pretty as all get-out, this wine is a floral masterpiece—a study in coastal rose and forest scents with a counterpunch of white pepper that leaves one wanting more. Juicy raspberry, strawberry and tangerine flavors are seasoned in allspice and tobacco, the palate so beautifully delicate yet fully realized in savory complexity and length.",Coastlands Vineyard,98,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
646,US,"This is a big Pinot Noir, dark and full bodied and juicy in pomegranates, cherries, red plums and sautéed wild mushrooms, and the interplay of oak with fruit even yields richer notes of milk chocolate. It's devastatingly good, but also too young and fresh now to show its best. With its fine tannins and exquisite balance, this articulate young wine should be best after 2013.",The Narrows Vineyard,96,75.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
647,US,"A dazzlingly good Pinot Noir. Hard to exaggerate the precision of flavor and structure. Shows the massively ripe character of the vintage, with a starburst of raspberries, cherries, cola, minerals and spices, while the acidity and tannins are just about perfect. This crowd pleaser is just extraordinary now, and should develop in the bottle over the next six years.",Precioso,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Keller Estate
648,US,"This is always one of Williams Selyem's most complex, interesting wines. The ‘05 is especially layered, showing a silky, elegant mouthfeel that frames extraordinarily lush flavors of cherries, cola, pomegranates, root beer and dusty Asian spices. Dry and elegant, it's a gorgeous Pinot Noir now, and should develop bottle complexity through 2015.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
649,US,"This fresh and lively medium-bodied wine is beautifully crafted, with cherry blossom aromas and tangy acidity. Layered and seductive, it offers a crisp mix of orange peel, cherry, pomegranate and baking spice flavors that are ready for the table or the cellar.",Gap's Crown Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Gary Farrell
650,US,"An extraordinary Chardonnay whose complicated richness is balanced with tight acidity and a firm grounding of stony minerals. Brings to mind a great Chablis, with its zesty tang followed by elaborate layers of tropical fruits and pears. Utterly delicious, wildly appealing, a wine that will develop bottle interest over the next six years. Only 97 cases were produced.",Precioso,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Keller Estate
651,US,"This Chardonnay and Riesling blend tastes TBA—totally botrytis affected—which it was, resulting in an intensely concentrated sweet wine. With 10% residual sugar, it has apricot nectar flavors and a dessert pastry, lemon chiffon thing going on. Always one of California's top dessert wines, the '03 is completely delicious.",Violetta Dessert Wine,95,75.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,White Blend,Grgich Hills
652,US,"Dry, tart and balanced, it has keen acidity highlighting complex flavors of pomegranates, persimmons, cherries and sandalwood, with the earthy, plummy sweetness of mu shu sauce. This wine gets better and better as it breathes in the glass. It's hard to keep from opening it now, but it will benefit from aging; best after 2018.",Olivet Lane Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
653,US,"Nearly all Syrah, with a splash of Viognier, this wine comes from some of the best vineyards in the Santa Ynez and Los Alamos Valleys, including the Happy Canyon area. It's a dramatic glass of red wine, bone dry and fairly tannic, with vast, intricate flavors of blackberries, black currants, teriaki beef, cherries, red licorice, cola, dark chocolate and toast. The Viognier brings a brightening dash of citrus and acidity. An extraordinary wine that will drink well through 2014.",As The Crow Flies,96,75.0,California,California,California Other,Syrah,Sanguis
654,US,"So rich and complex, so decadently delicious, you want to drink the whole bottle. Takes the blackberries and black currants of Cabernet Sauvignon, merges them with Syrah's bacon and pepper, flirts with Grenache's cherries, and then uplifts it all with Viognier's citrusy brightness and acidity. A compelling wine that will hold through 2013.",The Devil & The Deep Blue Sea,95,75.0,California,California,California Other,Red Blend,Sanguis
655,US,"Always a standout, this is the only one of the Cayuse Syrahs that is cofermented with Viognier. This explodes with flavors of blueberries, soy, earth, black tea, iodine, anise and salt, plus a hint of sassafras. Notes of herb and cured meat add further interest to this unique, captivating effort.",Cailloux Vineyard,95,75.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
656,US,"The vineyard has been the source to some of Goldeneye's deepest, most profound wines, and the '05 certainly is big and cellar-worthy. It's somewhat tannic, and very deep in black cherries and blackberries, with rich complexities of figs, dusty spices and smoky oak. The power of this wine is considerable, yet it somehow retains the light silkiness of great Pinot Noir.",Confluence Vineyard,96,75.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
657,US,"This flamboyant wine is drenched in new oak the way Hollywood stars used to wrap themselves in mink. It's fabulous, gooey-sweet in apricots, honey, vanilla, peaches and cream and ripe, sweet bananas sautéed in butter. It's all folded into the most unctuous, butter cream texture. Thank goodness for the acids. Deliriously addictive. Mostly Semillon, with Sauvignon Blanc.",Late Harvest Wine,96,75.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,White Blend,Dolce
658,US,"Incredibly delicious aromas of blackberry syrup, strawberries, cherry pie and cinnamon sticks make for a very juicy introduction to this single-vineyard bottling by Greg Brewer and Steve Clifton. The veil of ripeness carries to the palate, but it proves more serious and restrained, with graphite minerality, bergamot and sage elements. It's complex and yet easily enjoyable.",Machado,95,75.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Brewer-Clifton
659,US,"Incredibly delicious aromas of blackberry syrup, strawberries, cherry pie and cinnamon sticks make for a very juicy introduction to this single-vineyard bottling by Greg Brewer and Steve Clifton. The veil of ripeness carries to the palate, but it proves more serious and restrained, with graphite minerality, bergamot and sage elements. It's complex and yet easily enjoyable.",Machado,95,75.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Brewer-Clifton
660,US,"This tiny-production, best-of-barrels bottling is  ncredibly rich, and not unlike grand cru Burgundy. There are similarities in the Baroque structure and complex, layered lemondrop flavors that new oak so flatters. There's a tight, minerally acidity; it's a little leesy-sour right now, and all the parts haven't come together, but for sheer dazzle, you can't beat it. Cellar until the end of 2006 and drink through 2008.",Diamond T Estate Cuvée Audrey,96,75.0,California,Monterey,Central Coast,Chardonnay,Talbott
661,US,"Silky, with pronounced tannins that should mellow in time, this is an earthy, stemmy and perfumed wine. Succulent and balanced, it's brightly exuberant in black cherry yet brooding and complex throughout, changing slightly from savory to floral and back again. It's an incredible wine out of the gate; cellar with confidence, through 2021.",Olivet Lane Vineyard,96,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
662,US,"The vineyard has been the source to some of Goldeneye's deepest, most profound wines, and the '05 certainly is big and cellar-worthy. It's somewhat tannic, and very deep in black cherries and blackberries, with rich complexities of figs, dusty spices and smoky oak. The power of this wine is considerable, yet it somehow retains the light silkiness of great Pinot Noir.",Confluence Vineyard,96,75.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
663,US,"Made from 100% Sauvignon Blanc, with a great many vines more than 50 years old, this is an enormously complex wine. Fruit doesn't dominate. Flowers and minerals do, with flavors of stones, herbs and earth. What fruit there is brings to mind tart limes and lemons, perhaps white apricots and peaches, with peppery Asian spice accents. Has the weight of a great red wine, and is bone dry. Don't drink it too cold. Will age for a long time, perhaps a decade, in a cool cellar.",To Kalon Vineyard I Block,95,75.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Fumé Blanc,Robert Mondavi
664,US,"This expresses the greatness of its vintage and vineyard, offering wave after wave of raspberry and cherry pie flavors, plus notes of red currant, sweet licorice, spicy Dr. Pepper and smoky sandalwood. There's also something exotically briary and wild that intrigues. Even more remarkable is the texture, an amalgam of acids and tannins that rivals any Pinot Noir ever produced in California. It should age for up to 20 years.",Hirsch Vineyard,99,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
665,US,"In a vintage that produced the finest overall lineup of Cayuse wines to date, it may seem a little nit-picky to score some higher and some lower. But the En Chamberlin deserves first place again. Brilliant aromatics of smoked meat, bacon fat and otherworldly roasted accents seduce instantly. Once on the palate, the silky, balanced, near-perfect mix of umami and fruit, plus licorice, cassis, coffee liqueur and black tea notes suggest it's as decadent as it is delicious.",En Chamberlin Vineyard,99,75.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
666,US,"This is a very serious Pinot Noir, one that will benefit from cellaring despite the drink-me-now deliciousness. It's not just the fruit, which is deeply satisfying in cherries, raspberries, sweet rhubarb pie, blood oranges and juicy pomegranates. It's the structure. Crisp acids and silky tannins create a near-perfect architecture. Elegant and sophisticated, this wine should develop additional complexities for at least six years, with proper cellaring.",Arrendell Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hartford Court
667,US,"The Camaspelo blend is 80% Cabernet Sauvignon and 20% Merlot, and it shows a riot of juicy cranberry, raspberry, blueberry and black cherry flavors in a rambunctious display of power. Full, round and balanced, it offers hints of cedar, earth and coffee that extend onto the lush, complex, age-worthy finish.",Camaspelo,96,75.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Cabernet Sauvignon-Merlot,Cayuse
668,US,"This Chardonnay and Riesling blend tastes TBA—totally botrytis affected—which it was, resulting in an intensely concentrated sweet wine. With 10% residual sugar, it has apricot nectar flavors and a dessert pastry, lemon chiffon thing going on. Always one of California's top dessert wines, the '03 is completely delicious.",Violetta Dessert Wine,95,75.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,White Blend,Grgich Hills
669,US,"A spectacular Pinot, continuing a string of great vintages from this little vineyard. The year 2007 gave California supernaturally rich but balanced Pinot Noirs, and this is one of them. It's sensational, offering broad, exotic fruit flavors, pinpointed with exotic spices, and exquisitely highlighted with French oak. Truly fine, this small-production wine should age over the next 6–8 years.",Confluence Vineyard,97,75.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
670,US,"Impresses for the sheer power of ripeness, but also and especially for the structure. The flavors of blackberries, cherries, currants, cocoa, herbs and sweetly smoked oak are beautiful and complex, yet the tannin-acid balance is near perfect. This single-vineyard wine is one of the finest Sonoma County Cabernets of the vintage. Should age effortlessly through 2014, growing purer and more elegant.",Rockaway,96,75.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Rodney Strong
671,US,"Ed Sbragia is making some of the most interesting single-vineyard Cabernets in California. This one, from Howell Mountain, shows the density and power that typify all his wines. Although it's thoroughly dry, it tastes almost sweet in grilled blackberry marmalade flavors, balanced with good acidity and wonderfully fine tannins. Feels like it has the capacity to age for decades.",Cimarossa Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sbragia
672,US,"This is the most expensive of Martin Ray's current releases and it's easily the best. Dense and layered, it immediately seduces for its softly lush flavors of blackberries, currants, anise, chocolate and sweet smoky oak. Yet it has the tannic complexity to age through 2013 at least. Made from 100% Cab, it's a blend of their best barrels from Diamond Mountain, Stags Leap and Sonoma Mountain. Just 103 cases were produced.",Synthesis,95,75.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Martin Ray
673,US,"So rich and complex, so decadently delicious, you want to drink the whole bottle. Takes the blackberries and black currants of Cabernet Sauvignon, merges them with Syrah's bacon and pepper, flirts with Grenache's cherries, and then uplifts it all with Viognier's citrusy brightness and acidity. A compelling wine that will hold through 2013.",The Devil & The Deep Blue Sea,95,75.0,California,California,California Other,Red Blend,Sanguis
674,US,"This wine stops you in your tracks with its aromas of earth, peat, fire pit, tapenade and coffee. The flavors are outrageously rich, dense and textured, with a lightly tacky feel to the tannins and a hyperextended finish. It's a knockout.",La Paciencia Vineyard,95,75.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Tempranillo,No Girls
675,US,"This bottling, from the vineyard high up on Atlas Peak, is establishing itself as a real benchmark. The '07 is smooth and rich and vast in flavor, offering waves of blackberries, cherry pie, cassis and blackstrap molasses, with a delicious coating of sweet, smoky oak. It's impressive in youth, but so balanced, it should easily negotiate the years.",Stagecoach Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Krutz
676,US,"This is the most accessible, most interesting and most compelling of Sbragia's new Cabernets. It's extraordinarily powerful in the potent, sweetly refined tannins and ripe flavors of blackberries and cassis, leading to a long, rich finish. You can drink it now, but it will age effortlessly for a good 8–10 years.",Rancho Del Oso,95,75.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sbragia
677,US,"Gorgeous, elegant and ageworthy. With a softly tannic structure, it's drinkable now, but should age and gain complexity for 10 years. Dry and smooth, it has complex flavors of blackberries, black cherries, currants, red licorice, cola and oak. Give it some time to breathe. Now–2017.",Cask,95,75.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Rubicon Estate
678,US,"Accomplishes the impossible, stunning the palate with the most delicious flavors imaginable, yet with the structural integrity to age. Those flavors intoxicate with cherry pie, black raspberry tart, tangerine zest and mocha, finished with exotic spicebox and sweet, charred new oak smokiness, all enveloped in sheer silkiness and ultrarefined tannins. Drink now–2018.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,97,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
679,US,"Always one of Williams Selyem's top Pinot Noirs, the 2007 is a spectacular wine. The vines are the closest to the river in the famed Rochioli vineyard, and the resulting wine always has an elegant structure and fruity accessibility that make it drinkable at a younger age. Showing rich flavors of cherries, red currants, cola, bacon, anise, Asian spices and smoky oak, it will develop beautifully over the next decade.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,97,75.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
680,US,"One sip is all it takes to be blown away by this Pinot's beauty. It's exquisitely crafted, a testament to both the vineyard and the winery's oenological talent. The palate is bright and tangy with acidity, and incredibly complex flavors of wild berries, mushrooms, balsam, cola and Asian spices. It's dramatic now, but will continue to improve for at least 15 years.",Hirsch Vineyard,95,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
681,US,"Often considered the iconic Cayuse wine, this bears the cartoonish label with the leering frog, though it is a single-vineyard offering like the others. Initially showing some fat and sweetness, it is supple and textural, with the density that comes from a mix of flavors: pain grillé, smoke, umami, fungus, coffee grounds and dark fruits. A richly organic compendium of scents and flavors, with black tea tannins.",Bionic Frog,98,75.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
682,US,"A terrific wine, smooth, complex and ageworthy. Mainly Cabernet Sauvignon from Diamond Mountain, it shows mountain intensity of fruit, with a molten core of blackberries and black currants. The tannins are bigtime, yet smooth and refined in the modern style, and the finish is elaborate in fruits and spices. A monument to what this fine winery can achieve at the top level. Hold until 2015, after which it should provide great drinking for additional years.",Synthesis,95,75.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Martin Ray
683,US,"Nearly all Syrah, with a splash of Viognier, this wine comes from some of the best vineyards in the Santa Ynez and Los Alamos Valleys, including the Happy Canyon area. It's a dramatic glass of red wine, bone dry and fairly tannic, with vast, intricate flavors of blackberries, black currants, teriaki beef, cherries, red licorice, cola, dark chocolate and toast. The Viognier brings a brightening dash of citrus and acidity. An extraordinary wine that will drink well through 2014.",As The Crow Flies,96,75.0,California,California,California Other,Syrah,Sanguis
684,US,"This is rich and appealing, vast in flavor and luxurious in texture. It shows Oakville character in its smooth, velvety tannins and overall balance, with ripe blackberry, currant and dark chocolate flavors. If you can keep from drinking it now, it should hold in the cellar for 10–15 years.",Single Vineyard Selection Game Ranch,96,75.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
685,US,"Undoubtedly the greatest Chardonnay the winery has ever produced, this is as rich as any Chardonnay on the market. Notes of tropical fruit, green apple and crème brûlée mesh with vibrant minerality that's steely, chalky and tangy. Although it tastes of honey, the finish is completely dry. This might even develop earthy, nutty complexities as it ages.",Pastorale Vineyard,96,75.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Joseph Phelps
686,US,"A joy to drink now, and will develop over a decade or more. A dry, pure, focused wine whose intricately detailed cherry, cola and cranberry flavors are enhanced by minerally things from the earth and a near-perfect application of oak. Changes by the second in the glass, ever fascinating.",Allen Vineyard,96,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
687,US,"Not showing well now due to the tannins. It's dry and tough, with a resistance to the richness. Yet the core of flavor is enormous. Shows concentrated, flashy flavors of cherry marmalade, raspberry, orange blossom, cola, licorice, rose tea and spices that go on and on and continue to develop in the glass. The texture is pure silk and satin. Needs 4–6 years to develop, and could go beyond that.",Allen Vineyard,97,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
688,US,"Not showing well now due to the tannins. It's dry and tough, with a resistance to the richness. Yet the core of flavor is enormous. Shows concentrated, flashy flavors of cherry marmalade, raspberry, orange blossom, cola, licorice, rose tea and spices that go on and on and continue to develop in the glass. The texture is pure silk and satin. Needs 4–6 years to develop, and could go beyond that.",Allen Vineyard,97,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
689,US,"A triumph, one of the greatest Riverblock bottings in years. This always is a captivating wine, but the '09 is particularly scrumptious. Although it's quite tannic and acidic, it's forward enough in raspberries, cherries and cola to enjoy now. But it's bone dry and as elegant as California Pinot Noir gets. The balance suggests an ability to age for a good 10 years, if not longer.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,96,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
690,US,"This marks the debut of the Ramos Vineyard Chardonnay, inspired by a high-elevation site planted in 2001 by the late Bob Sessions and Jose Ramos, now director of vineyard operations. The wine paints a portrait of high-toned, elegant minerality accented by peach and lithe lemon. Capable of aging, it dances in acidity, with just a hint of caramel-vanilla on the finish. Made in tiny quantities, it's worth desperately seeking out.",Ramos Vineyard,95,78.0,California,Sonoma Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Hanzell
691,US,"Dry and focused in acids, the wine shows the balance and complexity of the vineyard, as well as its ageworthiness. It's very young now, with immature raspberry, cola, rum punch, balsamic, mushroom and Asian spice flavors, but decanting and slow warming in the glass help elevate it. Nonetheless, your best bet is the cellar. Best after 2008, and for many years after, depending on how old you like your wines.",Allen Vineyard,96,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
692,US,"Dry and focused in acids, the wine shows the balance and complexity of the vineyard, as well as its ageworthiness. It's very young now, with immature raspberry, cola, rum punch, balsamic, mushroom and Asian spice flavors, but decanting and slow warming in the glass help elevate it. Nonetheless, your best bet is the cellar. Best after 2008, and for many years after, depending on how old you like your wines.",Allen Vineyard,96,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
693,US,"This vineyard-designated wine reflects its sense of place remarkably well, offering tight dark cherry and blueberry around a strong character of wild earth, tea and herb. High in acidity and minerality, and yet powerfully understated, it's gorgeously drinkable now but will gain further complexity through 2022.",Hirsch Vineyard,95,78.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
694,US,"A joy to drink now, and will develop over a decade or more. A dry, pure, focused wine whose intricately detailed cherry, cola and cranberry flavors are enhanced by minerally things from the earth and a near-perfect application of oak. Changes by the second in the glass, ever fascinating.",Allen Vineyard,96,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
695,US,"While this vineyard is close by the Russian River and is not considered the best of Rochioli's vineyards, winemaker Bob Cabral consistently makes its grapes into one of Williams Selyem's most compelling wines. This shows the impeccable tannins and acids of Rochioli fruit, with sweet, ripe, deep flavors of cherry and spice. Notes of pomegranate, rum punch, dark chocolate and smoky sandalwood add complexity. Beautiful to drink now, it should continue to develop for at least 10 years.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,96,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
696,US,"A joy to drink now, and will develop over a decade or more. A dry, pure, focused wine whose intricately detailed cherry, cola and cranberry flavors are enhanced by minerally things from the earth and a near-perfect application of oak. Changes by the second in the glass, ever fascinating.",Allen Vineyard,96,78.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
697,US,"Fresh-picked Bing cherry delights on the initial entry into this silky Pinot, sourced from a long-famous site in the heart of the Russian River. Medium-bodied and nicely structured, it offers ample concentration around a core of elegance, with a lingering finish of vibrant cherry. Enjoy through 2022.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,95,79.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
698,US,"A classic Napa Valley Bordeaux blend, dry, smooth, complex and elegant. Based on Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon, it's an instant pleaser, from the dryness and mellow texture to the delicious blackberry, cassis, plum, dark chocolate and smoky oak flavors. It will provide wonderful drinking over many years.",Elevage,95,79.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Chimney Rock
699,US,"Mostly old (1972) Bacchus vineyard fruit is 100% Cabernet, and only the second reserve Cabernet ever produced by Abeja. It's dark, juicy, dense, smoky, layered and tight. Pepper, bacon, coffee grounds, graphite and black cherry roll through the palate, buttressed with lots of firm, smooth, polished and delicious tannins. A truly glorious bottle.",Reserve,96,80.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Abeja
700,US,"Here's one for the cellar, guaranteed. It shows all the classic hallmarks of an ageworthy Napa Cabernet. Dry, tannic and closed, with massively concentrated blackberry and cassis flavors, and a firm grounding of minerals. Very fine and complex, very impressive. Hold for at least six years, and should develop in the bottle for far longer.",India Ink,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kuleto Estate
701,US,"An astonishing wine, creamy and loaded with lush fruit flavors. The tropical fruits are just the beginning; layer upon layer of marshmallow, whipped cream, brioche, butterscotch, buttered nuts, toast and more keep piling on. With all that richness, it remains a billowy, pillowy Chardonnay, light as a feather, yet deep and dreamy.",Sigrid,95,80.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Bergström
702,US,"Only a Burgundian ideologue would find anything not to like about this mouth-filling Pinot that captures the essence of Santa Rita Hills. It's as voluptuous as any Pinot in California, offering waves of ripe, fleshy cherries, red currants, licorice and smoky vanilla that just don't stop in palate appeal. For all that, the wine is elegant, silky and refined. Delicious now, although a little tannic, and will benefit from decanting and aging. Bring on the steak.",Ten,96,80.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sea Smoke
703,US,"A high-acid, weighty and complex white, this vintage is even better than the last, gorgeous in a golden tannish color. Tropical guava and white flowers weave seamlessly through a web of minerality and freshness, without compromising body and texture. This is a delicious wine.",Wayfarer Vineyard,95,80.0,California,Fort Ross-Seaview,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Wayfarer
704,US,"Gorgeous, opulent, intense, a really impressive Cabernet right out of the bottle. Feels softly tannic and very dry, with enormously complex flavors of blackberries and cassis, cola, violets, minerals, cedar and unnameable tastes from the earth. A wine to savor now and cellar for a decade.",Frog Prince,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kuleto Estate
705,US,"One of the richest Cabernets of the vintage. Amazingly soft and velvety in the mouth, yet there's a solid grip of acidity and tannins that balance the richness. The flavors are extraordinary, ranging from blackberry and cherry-pie filling through currant liqueur and milk chocolate to leather. So decadent now, it's hard to resist, but should develop for 4–6 years.",Kathryn Hall,96,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hall
706,US,"A high-acid, weighty and complex white, this vintage is even better than the last, gorgeous in a golden tannish color. Tropical guava and white flowers weave seamlessly through a web of minerality and freshness, without compromising body and texture. This is a delicious wine.",Wayfarer Vineyard,95,80.0,California,Fort Ross-Seaview,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Wayfarer
707,US,"Pure, dense and deep, this captures the pure essence of Red Mountain Cabernet Sauvignon. Berry and cherry flavors surface in equal proportion, with more rock than barrel adding complexity throughout the finish. Excellent depth and structure suggest that this is one to put down for a decade or more.",Lonely Heart,95,80.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Mark Ryan
708,US,"An astonishing wine, creamy and loaded with lush fruit flavors. The tropical fruits are just the beginning; layer upon layer of marshmallow, whipped cream, brioche, butterscotch, buttered nuts, toast and more keep piling on. With all that richness, it remains a billowy, pillowy Chardonnay, light as a feather, yet deep and dreamy.",Sigrid,95,80.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Bergström
709,US,"This very dense, tannic Pinot Noir represents a triumph for both the winery, the vintage and the region it represents. A multi-clone blend (hence the name) with high, cool-climate acidity and aged in 100% new oak, it's still young, fresh and tight. The astringency throws a cloak over the raspberries, cherries, rosehip tea and Indian spice flavors, which reveal themselves only reluctantly. But they're there, in an imposing texture of velvet and silk. This enormous wine demands time. The window seems to be 2012–2015.",Ten,97,80.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sea Smoke
710,US,"One of the richest Cabernets of the vintage. Amazingly soft and velvety in the mouth, yet there's a solid grip of acidity and tannins that balance the richness. The flavors are extraordinary, ranging from blackberry and cherry-pie filling through currant liqueur and milk chocolate to leather. So decadent now, it's hard to resist, but should develop for 4–6 years.",Kathryn Hall,96,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hall
711,US,"Mostly old (1972) Bacchus vineyard fruit is 100% Cabernet, and only the second reserve Cabernet ever produced by Abeja. It's dark, juicy, dense, smoky, layered and tight. Pepper, bacon, coffee grounds, graphite and black cherry roll through the palate, buttressed with lots of firm, smooth, polished and delicious tannins. A truly glorious bottle.",Reserve,96,80.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Abeja
712,US,"This is the smoothest, most polished of Standish's quartet of new Pinots. It's a best-of-barrels selection, and really impressive in cherry, currant, licorice, cola and Provençal herbs. With near-perfect balance, it exemplifies Anderson Valley and also is a standout in the great 2005 vintage. It was crafted, under Standish's “guest winemaker” program, by Zach Rasmussen, of Goldeneye.",Mayflower,95,80.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Standish
713,US,"Venge's superb 2008 Bone Ash was a tough act to follow, but this 2009 pulls it off. Made entirely from Cabernet and aged for nearly two years in mostly new French oak, it shows massively rich flavors of blackberries, cassis and sweet buttered toast, with a lush, smooth mouthfeel, courtesy of ripe, sweet tannins. So easy to like, and an ideal partner to a perfectly grilled steak. Drink now and over the next six years.",Bone Ash Vineyard,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Venge
714,US,"An awesome wine—this is so massively intense in blackberry, blueberry and cassis flavors, it's hard to believe. From the first sip though the middle palate, it's seemingly sweet with a fruity essence, but the finish is dry and firm. Drink now and for 8–10 years, at the very least.",Agira Vineyard,96,80.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Von Strasser
715,US,"This Cabernet takes its place among Napa's top tier. Bone dry and nobly structured, it shows firm tannins and bracing acidity, framing classic blackberry and currant flavors. Should come into its own after 2015.",Reserve,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Snowden
716,US,"Gorgeous, opulent, intense, a really impressive Cabernet right out of the bottle. Feels softly tannic and very dry, with enormously complex flavors of blackberries and cassis, cola, violets, minerals, cedar and unnameable tastes from the earth. A wine to savor now and cellar for a decade.",Frog Prince,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kuleto Estate
717,US,"This fabulous mountain Cabernet blend is hefty in tannins, but it's so delicious and balanced, it's totally drinkable now. Massive black currant flavors penetrate the palate and last forever on the finish. Oak adds smoky, spicy complexities. Cellar a case of this wine through 2015 or so, opening one bottle a year to experience its evolution.",Reserve,95,80.0,California,Mount Veeder,Napa,Cabernet Blend,Mount Veeder
718,US,"This wine blends multiple clones of Pinot Noir from two of the winery's vineyards, Camp Meeting Ridge and Sea View Ridge. Both sites are high elevation, located only a few miles from the Pacific Ocean and extremely low in yields. Flowers negotiated a difficult vintage deftly with this low-alcohol wine of unusual delicacy and charm. It's complex and layered with cherry, raspberry, cola, wild thyme, balsam and sandalwood flavors. It's texture is like pure silk in the mouth. Drink now–2017.",Moon Select,95,80.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Flowers
719,US,"This wine stands out. It's very dry, with a full, firm texture of tannins and acidity, but most notable are the flavors. They are extraordinarily rich, mingling red and black cherries, mocha, cola and spice with toast, caramel and smoke from fine oak. Despite the wine's density, it possesses lightness and elegance that make it uplifting. Drink now and over the next several years.",Heirloom,95,80.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
720,US,"A quintessential, cult-style Napa Cabernet, this has a soft creaminess that's reminiscent of milk chocolate. The fruit is terrifically ripe in blackberry jam and cassis liqueur, with a strong but balanced application of sweet oak. Really complex, it's a Cabernet that will stand against the best of Napa Valley.",Veraison Stagecoach Vineyard,96,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Krupp Brothers
721,US,"While the winery's regular 2010 Diamond Mountain Cab is a barrel selection, this Estate Vineyard selection consists of “only the darkest, most extracted lots,” from the winery's various vineyards, according to the winemaker. That's exactly what you get, an inky wine, it's huge on the palate with blackberries, currants and dark chocolate, augmented by plenty of new French oak. It is absolutely delicious now, but the tannin structure guarantees to develop for 10–20 years.",Estate Vineyard,95,80.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Von Strasser
722,US,"Using grapes sourced entirely from the En Chamberlin Vineyard, this pure Cabernet is deep, dark, focused and tight, with firm but velvety tannins and a perfect mix of cassis, coffee and earth. Even more than previous years, this vintage displays astonishing depth and power. Flavors of Serrano ham and other cured meats, plus a delicate saltiness and minerality keep the flavors developing onto  the long, fascinating finish.",The Widowmaker,97,80.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Cayuse
723,US,"This has so much rich earth and minerality, it's like a journey deep into a mine. It's noted the vines were planted in 1970, and the wine does have that old-vine concentration of fruit in the form of massively intense blackberries. Then there's the smoky new oak, which adds such a lusciously sweet jacket of buttered toast. Tannic and tight in the way of Diamond Mountain Cabernets, this should begin to come into its own after 2016.",Spaulding Vineyard,95,80.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Von Strasser
724,US,"This very dense, tannic Pinot Noir represents a triumph for both the winery, the vintage and the region it represents. A multi-clone blend (hence the name) with high, cool-climate acidity and aged in 100% new oak, it's still young, fresh and tight. The astringency throws a cloak over the raspberries, cherries, rosehip tea and Indian spice flavors, which reveal themselves only reluctantly. But they're there, in an imposing texture of velvet and silk. This enormous wine demands time. The window seems to be 2012–2015.",Ten,97,80.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sea Smoke
725,US,"One of the richest Cabernets of the vintage. Amazingly soft and velvety in the mouth, yet there's a solid grip of acidity and tannins that balance the richness. The flavors are extraordinary, ranging from blackberry and cherry-pie filling through currant liqueur and milk chocolate to leather. So decadent now, it's hard to resist, but should develop for 4–6 years.",Kathryn Hall,96,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hall
726,US,"This wine blends multiple clones of Pinot Noir from two of the winery's vineyards, Camp Meeting Ridge and Sea View Ridge. Both sites are high elevation, located only a few miles from the Pacific Ocean and extremely low in yields. Flowers negotiated a difficult vintage deftly with this low-alcohol wine of unusual delicacy and charm. It's complex and layered with cherry, raspberry, cola, wild thyme, balsam and sandalwood flavors. It's texture is like pure silk in the mouth. Drink now–2017.",Moon Select,95,80.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Flowers
727,US,"This is dry and brisk in acidity, with firm tannins and great structural integrity. At the same time, it's vast in blackberry and cherry-jam flavors, while the oak overlay is strong but perfectly matched with the wine's volume. Very fine, complex and elegant, this is a Cabernet to cellar for eight years; it could be one for the long haul.",Flat Rock Ranch,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Laird
728,US,"This is an extraordinarily fine Cabernet Sauvignon, easily St. Supéry's best in memory. It's made in a completely different style from the prevailing cult model, being fully dry, lower in alcohol, and maintaining a tannic structure framing blackberry and currant flavors that are notably balanced with herbs and tobacco. Will get better and better. Call it Bordeaux-esque. Now–2017.",Dollarhide Limited Edition Estate,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,St. Supéry
729,US,"Only a Burgundian ideologue would find anything not to like about this mouth-filling Pinot that captures the essence of Santa Rita Hills. It's as voluptuous as any Pinot in California, offering waves of ripe, fleshy cherries, red currants, licorice and smoky vanilla that just don't stop in palate appeal. For all that, the wine is elegant, silky and refined. Delicious now, although a little tannic, and will benefit from decanting and aging. Bring on the steak.",Ten,96,80.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sea Smoke
730,US,"This portion of the winery's vineyard always yields Cabernets of enormous concentration with hard tannins. The 2009 is a classic, detonating in the mouth with laserlike blackberry and cassis flavors, to which new oak brings additional richness of smoky cedar. It's really a beautiful wine, but very tannic, even by Von Strasser standards. Give it at least eight years, and it could be drinking well 20 years from now.",Sori Bricco Vineyard,95,80.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Von Strasser
731,US,"This is an enormous Cabernet, as packed with intensity and power as anything in Napa Valley. The vineyard is Von Strasser's highest on the mountain, which maximally exposes it to the sun, and you can taste the solar ripeness in the intense essence of black currants and dark chocolate. The tannins exhibit classic Diamond Mountain potency. This is a dense Cabernet that needs serious time in the cellar. Hold until 2019, and it will continue to develop for many years afterward.",Sori Bricco Vineyard,95,80.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Von Strasser
732,US,"Only a Burgundian ideologue would find anything not to like about this mouth-filling Pinot that captures the essence of Santa Rita Hills. It's as voluptuous as any Pinot in California, offering waves of ripe, fleshy cherries, red currants, licorice and smoky vanilla that just don't stop in palate appeal. For all that, the wine is elegant, silky and refined. Delicious now, although a little tannic, and will benefit from decanting and aging. Bring on the steak.",Ten,96,80.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Sea Smoke
733,US,"Bergström's Sigrid is one of the finest Chardonnays made in Oregon. Racy and refined, it shows Burgundian finesse, toast and acidity. As in other top tier wines from the Northwest, the fruit has a certain vibrancy that shouts “New World.” Peach, apple and pear flavors abound.",Sigrid,95,80.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Bergström
734,US,"Gorgeous, opulent, intense, a really impressive Cabernet right out of the bottle. Feels softly tannic and very dry, with enormously complex flavors of blackberries and cassis, cola, violets, minerals, cedar and unnameable tastes from the earth. A wine to savor now and cellar for a decade.",Frog Prince,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kuleto Estate
735,US,"A spectacular dessert wine. The residual sugar is 18%, making it superrich in honeyed sweetness, complexed with apricot, pineapple, pear, vanilla cream and new oak flavors of butterscotch and crème brûlée. But it's also crisp in acidity, giving it a clean scour. One of the best sweeties of the vintage.",Estate Vineyard Selection Botrytised,95,80.0,California,Chalk Hill,Sonoma,Sémillon,Chalk Hill
736,US,"Here's one for the cellar, guaranteed. It shows all the classic hallmarks of an ageworthy Napa Cabernet. Dry, tannic and closed, with massively concentrated blackberry and cassis flavors, and a firm grounding of minerals. Very fine and complex, very impressive. Hold for at least six years, and should develop in the bottle for far longer.",India Ink,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kuleto Estate
737,US,"Mostly old (1972) Bacchus vineyard fruit is 100% Cabernet, and only the second reserve Cabernet ever produced by Abeja. It's dark, juicy, dense, smoky, layered and tight. Pepper, bacon, coffee grounds, graphite and black cherry roll through the palate, buttressed with lots of firm, smooth, polished and delicious tannins. A truly glorious bottle.",Reserve,96,80.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Abeja
738,US,"Over many years Dolce has established itself as one of the top dessert wines in California, and the '02 doesn't disappoint. Enormously rich in apricot, tangerine and roasted coconut flavors, with plenty of botrytis notes, the wine was aged in 100% new French oak, and oozes in sweet vanilla char and crème brûlée.",Late Harvest Wine,96,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Semillon-Sauvignon Blanc,Dolce
739,US,"Here's one for the cellar, guaranteed. It shows all the classic hallmarks of an ageworthy Napa Cabernet. Dry, tannic and closed, with massively concentrated blackberry and cassis flavors, and a firm grounding of minerals. Very fine and complex, very impressive. Hold for at least six years, and should develop in the bottle for far longer.",India Ink,95,80.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kuleto Estate
740,US,"Sourced entirely from the biodynamic estate vineyard, this extraordinary wine delivers compact, complex, detailed aromas and flavors in perfect proportion. The blueberry and cherry fruit is wreathed in dried herbs and flowers. Fourteen months in French oak, roughly half new, adds a thread of vanilla bean. Loads of dried extract, polished tannins and moist earth bring in more nuances.",Bergström Vineyard,95,81.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Bergström
741,US,"Sourced entirely from the biodynamic estate vineyard, this extraordinary wine delivers compact, complex, detailed aromas and flavors in perfect proportion. The blueberry and cherry fruit is wreathed in dried herbs and flowers. Fourteen months in French oak, roughly half new, adds a thread of vanilla bean. Loads of dried extract, polished tannins and moist earth bring in more nuances.",Bergström Vineyard,95,81.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Bergström
742,US,"This complex, sophisticated and undeniably delicious wine blends strong flavor components into a harmonious whole. Aromas are lightly smoky and toasty, while flavors emphasize black tea, Bing cherry and sweet vermouth. The texture is firm and fine-grained giving a very smooth mouthfeel, and the finish lingers nicely.",The Narrows Vineyard,95,82.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
743,US,"A drop-dead gorgeous Pinot Noir that will satisfy everyone from Burgundy fans to diehard Cabernet cultists. Show an elegant complexity and silky texture that define great California Pinot Noir, yet with a powerful impact that emphasizes raspberries, cherries and blueberries. Brilliant acidity and tannins provide the perfect framework on this wine that's drinkable now, and will develop over the next 15–20 years.",Allen Vineyard,97,82.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
744,US,"You can taste the California sun in every sip of this gorgeous Pinot Noir. It brims with luscious raspberries and cherries accented by brisk acidity and a hint of sweet, smoky oak. It's terrifically complex, with notes of mushroom, orange zest, cola, rosehip tea and persimmon. Dry and elegant, with a wonderful mouthfeel, it's gorgeous now, but will gain earthy complexity over the next 15 years.",Allen Vineyard,96,82.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
745,US,"Full and plush on the palate, this wine shines in spicy red and black cherry, offering both a juicy core and sculpted texture. Finishing long, it retains a freshness of acidity, fine tannin and seamless oak. A dark, earthy expression of the grape with a twist of spice.",Rochioli Riverblock Vineyard,95,82.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
746,US,"This complex, sophisticated and undeniably delicious wine blends strong flavor components into a harmonious whole. Aromas are lightly smoky and toasty, while flavors emphasize black tea, Bing cherry and sweet vermouth. The texture is firm and fine-grained giving a very smooth mouthfeel, and the finish lingers nicely.",The Narrows Vineyard,95,82.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
747,US,"You can taste the California sun in every sip of this gorgeous Pinot Noir. It brims with luscious raspberries and cherries accented by brisk acidity and a hint of sweet, smoky oak. It's terrifically complex, with notes of mushroom, orange zest, cola, rosehip tea and persimmon. Dry and elegant, with a wonderful mouthfeel, it's gorgeous now, but will gain earthy complexity over the next 15 years.",Allen Vineyard,96,82.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
748,US,"Another longtime standout for Williams Selyem, Allen Vineyard fruit imparts textural subtleties and a wealth of minerality and freshness. Citrus-driven in its cranberry and orange flavors, it shows depth and complexity, accented by lively thyme and clove notes.",Allen Vineyard,95,82.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
749,US,"This is classic Three Palms Merlot—as excellent as anything Duckhorn has ever produced. It shows the hard tannins that always mark the winery's Bordeaux-style red wines, but it's luscious and deep in berry fruit, licorice, grilled meat and cola. It should have no difficulty negotiating the years. Give it until around 2015, but if you can't wait, at least decant it for a few hours.",Three Palms Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Merlot,Duckhorn
750,US,"This is one of the few California Syrahs that demands time in the cellar. Its tough tannins form an aloof astringency that makes it virtually undrinkable now, but it has an incredible core of blackberry, black currant and dark chocolate fruit. Peppery, anise, leather and spice notes, in addition to slightly caramelized vanillins from 100% new oak, impart great complexity. Best 2012 and beyond.",Ascent,95,85.0,California,Sierra Foothills,Sierra Foothills,Syrah,Terre Rouge
751,US,"Piña has a spectacular record with this wine, and indeed with all their Cabs from Howell Mountain. The '07 is notable for its superb structure. It has pristine tannins and a good, dry mouthfeel, with very rich flavors of blackberries, currants, chocolate and cedar that are grounded with notes of anise and sweet herbs. Very fine and dramatic, this 100% Cab should develop for at least the next eight years.",Buckeye Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Piña
752,US,"A brilliant Syrah, showing its cool-climate origins with a burst of white pepper. Much of the fruit comes from the Bien Nacido Vineyard, and the Syrah contains 4% Viognier. Firm tannins and fine acidity give this delicious wine structure, but it's mostly notable for the extraordinary depth and length of its blackberry, currant, teriaki beef, mushroom and cedar flavors. The wine easily stands up to 100% new French oak casks.",The Oracle of Delphi,95,85.0,California,California,California Other,Syrah,Sanguis
753,US,"This is among the lightest in color of Williams Selyem's ‘05 Pinots, and also the most delicate in texture. But yields were very low, and the wine has a fantastically concentrated taste of wild raspberries, as well as crisp, stimulating acidity. Despite the elegance, it's enormously complex, with tiers of oak-influenced cola, herb tea, pomegranate, vanilla and Asian spice flavors. Gorgeous now, this very great Pinot should develop well in the bottle over the next decade.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,97,85.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
754,US,"This outstanding wine shows the best features of Howell Mountain. It's gigantic in concentrated flavors of blackberries and black cherries, cocoa and cedar, with hints of wild herbs and even flowers. And although it's tannic, there's a mellow mouthfeel that permits drinking now. But it should age well through 2018.",Buckeye Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Piña
755,US,"This is among the lightest in color of Williams Selyem's ‘05 Pinots, and also the most delicate in texture. But yields were very low, and the wine has a fantastically concentrated taste of wild raspberries, as well as crisp, stimulating acidity. Despite the elegance, it's enormously complex, with tiers of oak-influenced cola, herb tea, pomegranate, vanilla and Asian spice flavors. Gorgeous now, this very great Pinot should develop well in the bottle over the next decade.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,97,85.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
756,US,"Easily earns its high score for the sheer power and mass, equal to anything out of Napa. Erupts in the most complex blackberries, black currants, licorice and 100% new smoky oak flavors, with a spicy finish that goes on and on. The tannins are strong and fine and impressive. Not for the faint-hearted, and not a wine to drink now, as it will swamp food. Should begin to emerge after 2012.",Brenda's Vineyard,96,85.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Baldacci
757,US,"This outstanding wine shows the best features of Howell Mountain. It's gigantic in concentrated flavors of blackberries and black cherries, cocoa and cedar, with hints of wild herbs and even flowers. And although it's tannic, there's a mellow mouthfeel that permits drinking now. But it should age well through 2018.",Buckeye Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Piña
758,US,"This is one of the few California Syrahs that demands time in the cellar. Its tough tannins form an aloof astringency that makes it virtually undrinkable now, but it has an incredible core of blackberry, black currant and dark chocolate fruit. Peppery, anise, leather and spice notes, in addition to slightly caramelized vanillins from 100% new oak, impart great complexity. Best 2012 and beyond.",Ascent,95,85.0,California,Sierra Foothills,Sierra Foothills,Syrah,Terre Rouge
759,US,"This wine shows a high degree of spiciness with a rose petal-like flourish—a stellar first effort from a new estate vineyard along Eastside Road. Brambly raspberry and dark cherry flavors seem brushed by a subtle waft of campfire smoke and molten chocolate, all swirling together in the glass as a lengthy, lively palate framed by acidity.",Lewis MacGregor Estate Vineyard,96,85.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
760,US,"This Grenache leaps into another dimension, with more concentration, earth, umami and salinity than ever before, yet it retains its elegance thanks to a crisp finish of raspberry and rock flavors. Reminiscent in a way to high-altitude Argentine Malbec, this will cellar well for a decade or more.",God Only Knows,95,85.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Grenache,Cayuse
761,US,"This is one of the few California Syrahs that demands time in the cellar. Its tough tannins form an aloof astringency that makes it virtually undrinkable now, but it has an incredible core of blackberry, black currant and dark chocolate fruit. Peppery, anise, leather and spice notes, in addition to slightly caramelized vanillins from 100% new oak, impart great complexity. Best 2012 and beyond.",Ascent,95,85.0,California,Sierra Foothills,Sierra Foothills,Syrah,Terre Rouge
762,US,"Another spectacular Dolce, which continues the brand's string of successes and further emphasizes its standing as one of California's greatest- white dessert wines. It lacks a touch of the concentration found in the 2006, but it dazzles nonetheless with intricate, sweet flavors of honey, butterscotch, golden-apricot nectar, orange marmalade, pineapple tart, vanilla and buttered toast. And all that is brightened by crisp acidity. Terrific to drink now, and it will hold in a proper cellar for a decade. The blend is 82% Sémillon and 18% Sauvignon Blanc.",Late Harvest Wine,96,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Semillon-Sauvignon Blanc,Dolce
763,US,"Dense and concentrated, this has thick, almost jammy blue and purple fruits, with a peppery highlight and an undercurrent of sweet grain. The palate is tight, featuring layers of cassis, ink, anise, coffee and iodine, with an earthy salinity that runs through the finish. The Armada is perhaps a bit less fruity and more austere than the other 2009 Cayuse Syrahs, but is every inch their equal.",Armada Vineyard,97,85.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
764,US,"Made from equal amounts of Pinot Noir and Chardonnay, this wine was aged on the lees for more than four years, which gives it a fabulous creamy, yeasty complexity. There are tantalizing flavors of limes, orange zest, roasted hazelnuts, minerals and smoke. Absolutely wonderful now, and should hold and develop in the bottle through 2014, at least. Only 563 cases produced.",Brut LD,96,85.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Iron Horse
765,US,"A block selection, this most rare offering from DDO has rippingly good aromatics, intense and complex, with dusty, dreamy spices wrapped around a seamless mix of berry, earth and herbal components. The somewhat gritty texture gives it muscle and length, and the overall complexity suggests it can age for up to a quarter century. Drink now through 2035.",Édition Limitée,96,85.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Domaine Drouhin Oregon
766,US,"A brilliant Syrah, showing its cool-climate origins with a burst of white pepper. Much of the fruit comes from the Bien Nacido Vineyard, and the Syrah contains 4% Viognier. Firm tannins and fine acidity give this delicious wine structure, but it's mostly notable for the extraordinary depth and length of its blackberry, currant, teriaki beef, mushroom and cedar flavors. The wine easily stands up to 100% new French oak casks.",The Oracle of Delphi,95,85.0,California,California,California Other,Syrah,Sanguis
767,US,"An extra dollop of toasty oak amplifies the deep black-cherry core. Cedar, pipe tobacco, espresso and dark chocolate highlights wrap around and through the finish. This is a wine with power, precision and exceptional detail. Drink now through the mid-2020s.",Estate Justina,96,85.0,Oregon,Chehalem Mountains,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Alloro
768,US,"The winery's most expensive wine comes from very low-yielding Martini selection grapes planted in 1975. The '07, tasted at a bit more than one year of age, was pronounced in smoky oak and robust tannins, showing jammy flavors of blackberries, cherries, blueberries, anise, cloves and cedar. Hold this powerful wine until 2011.",Arrendell Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hartford Court
769,US,"This wine is a blend of top sites Les Collines, SJR and Red Willow. It's perfumed with notes of green olive, violets, dried herbs, mineral and smoked meat. The palate is tightly wound, sensuous and supple, lithe yet rich with tart fruit and savory flavors backed by tannins that need more time to come into their own—but this wine surely deserves it. It has all of the stuffing to be a 20+ year wine. Best from 2025 to 2032. Give it an extended decant if opening in the near term.",John Lewis,95,85.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Gramercy
770,US,"A vital, focused Cabernet, this shows the sheer classiness of Oakville in its concentrated blackberry and black currant fruit. It's seemingly sweet and dry at the same time, and the tannins, which are extraordinarily thick, are fine and pure. Irresistably delicious now, this changes in the glass by the second. It suggests it wants some time in the cellar, so drink now–2021.",Ames Vineyard,96,85.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Piña
771,US,"The winery's most expensive wine comes from very low-yielding Martini selection grapes planted in 1975. The '07, tasted at a bit more than one year of age, was pronounced in smoky oak and robust tannins, showing jammy flavors of blackberries, cherries, blueberries, anise, cloves and cedar. Hold this powerful wine until 2011.",Arrendell Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hartford Court
772,US,"Thick aromas range from blueberry and other dense black fruits to fudge, concentrated purple flowers and nose-tickling baking spice. The palate on this blend of 62% Grenache, 28% Syrah and 10% Mourvèdre is rich and luxurious, with more blueberries, tarragon, chocolate ganache, black-loam minerality and a Sichuan pepper element that makes the tongue tingle.",Harmonie,95,85.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Rhône-style Red Blend,Clos Solène
773,US,"This is a big, rich, dramatic Cabernet. The underlying fruit is spectacular, offering tiers of blackberries, black currants and cocoa, while 100% new French oak aging lends strong, but balanced, layers of toast. The tannins are ripe and sturdy, yet very finely ground. Really a beautiful example of the modern style, and should develop over the next six years.",Revilo Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
774,US,"Separate from the other Original Vines bottling, this is part of the new single-vineyard series, and includes the famed South Block grapes. Lush and fragrant, full-bodied yet in the classic, elegant Eyrie tradition, this bursts with complexity. Bramble, cherries, strawberry preserves, coffee grounds and a hint of root beer come together in a deep, dense and thoroughly delicious wine.",Original Vines Estate,96,85.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,The Eyrie Vineyards
775,US,"Thick aromas range from blueberry and other dense black fruits to fudge, concentrated purple flowers and nose-tickling baking spice. The palate on this blend of 62% Grenache, 28% Syrah and 10% Mourvèdre is rich and luxurious, with more blueberries, tarragon, chocolate ganache, black-loam minerality and a Sichuan pepper element that makes the tongue tingle.",Harmonie,95,85.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Rhône-style Red Blend,Clos Solène
776,US,"The winery's most expensive wine comes from very low-yielding Martini selection grapes planted in 1975. The '07, tasted at a bit more than one year of age, was pronounced in smoky oak and robust tannins, showing jammy flavors of blackberries, cherries, blueberries, anise, cloves and cedar. Hold this powerful wine until 2011.",Arrendell Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Hartford Court
777,US,"A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah and Merlot, this is dry, smooth, rich and delicious, and it offers waves of ripe blackberry, crème de cassis, dark chocolate and charred meat flavors, plus the spiciness of sweet licorice and pepper. It can be consumed now, but it will also develop for 3–4 years.",Galaxy,95,85.0,California,Napa County,Napa,Red Blend,Terlato
778,US,"A tremendous Cabernet, authoritative and exciting. Shows a great structure of acidity and tannins, with a cedar and sweet tobacco earthiness. Yet it's also explosive in blackberries, black cherries, red and black currants and anise liqueur. A real accomplishment, and a great compliment to the high-altitude Stagecoach Vineyard, which straddles the Atlas Peak and Napa Valley appellation lines. Drink now–2016.",Stagecoach Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sequoia Grove
779,US,"Named for winemaker Ross Cobb's late mother, who more than 20 years ago planted the Coastlands Vineyards' dry-farmed vines—some of the oldest in the region—this exquisitely distinctive wine celebrates all that is extreme and remarkable about the marriage of site, style and variety. Offering bay laurel in abundance, it has plenty of body to remain vibrant and complex, marked entirely in forest floor and heady allspice, with a nuance of cherry and white pepper on the finish.",Diane Cobb Coastlands Vineyard,97,85.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Cobb
780,US,"Piña has a spectacular record with this wine, and indeed with all their Cabs from Howell Mountain. The '07 is notable for its superb structure. It has pristine tannins and a good, dry mouthfeel, with very rich flavors of blackberries, currants, chocolate and cedar that are grounded with notes of anise and sweet herbs. Very fine and dramatic, this 100% Cab should develop for at least the next eight years.",Buckeye Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Piña
781,US,"This 100% Cabernet Sauvignon is aged in 85% new oak, and it shows the essence of Oakville in its dry, tannic, ripe and complex identity. It would be hard to exaggerate the excellence of the blackberries, black currants, black cherries, dark chocolate and oak flavors, which have a Christmas-pudding-like headiness. A hint of raisin suggests it approaches overripeness, yet it maintains superb control. The tannins and overall balance should help this age for many years, but it can also be consumed now.",Game Ranch Single Vineyard Selection,97,85.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
782,US,"This is the third release of Figgins, a single wine produced by Leonetti's Chris Figgins from his Figgins Estate vineyard. Intensely aromatic, it explodes from the glass with baking spices and deep cassis fruit. Over the course of three days it opened into a sleek, stylish, complex mix of purple- and black-berries, dried herbs, bark, dusty cocoa and a streak of caramel. Long and lush, it's a wine to cellar for a decade or more.",Estate,96,85.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Figgins
783,US,"A limited- production wine (185 cases), it captures the quintessence of central Napa Valley Cabernet, and even in this less than successful vintage, testifies to the great terroir. It's plush, elegant, harmonious, delicate, powerful, graceful and frankly delicious.",Marjorie's Sunrise,95,85.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Robert Mondavi
784,US,"The Sigrid never fails to deliver lush fruit and hedonistic barrel flavors. However in cooler years, when the alcohol falls below 14%, it has something extra when details of skin and flower emerge as well. This is a wine of power and finesse, with juicy pear and peach, supple acids, brioche and toasted biscuit, underscored with refreshing minerality. Drink now through 2025.",Sigrid,95,85.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Bergström
785,US,"Piña has a spectacular record with this wine, and indeed with all their Cabs from Howell Mountain. The '07 is notable for its superb structure. It has pristine tannins and a good, dry mouthfeel, with very rich flavors of blackberries, currants, chocolate and cedar that are grounded with notes of anise and sweet herbs. Very fine and dramatic, this 100% Cab should develop for at least the next eight years.",Buckeye Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Piña
786,US,"A blend of four vineyards, this is an extremely impressive Merlot. It dazzles with rich, ripe black currant, cherry liqueur, raspberry, milk chocolate, smoky oak and spice flavors that are complex and go on and on through the finish. Beyond that is the texture, so refined and elegant, combining power and subtle elegance. Just a gorgeous, sensual Merlot. Drink now–2010.",Estate Grown,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Merlot,Duckhorn
787,US,"An extraordinary wine. It's the essence of Russian River Pinot, squared, a big, concentrated, dramatic wine that never loses sight of elegance. Offers a tapestry of cherry pie with the crust, red currant, cherry liqueur and smoky sandalwood flavors that finish with intricate Indian spices. Drink now–2013.",Gold Ridge,97,85.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Semper
788,US,"A powerful wine, this is only the fourth reserve Cabernet Sauvignon ever made by Abeja. Thick, black and redolent of new French oak, this is as close to a Napa Valley cult Cabernet as you will find this far north. The alcohol, which nears 16%, is beautifully handled and proportionate, but the wine's style is over the top and not suited to every palate. Best to drink this over the next 3–5 years.",Reserve,95,85.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Abeja
789,US,"Tasted blind in a large group of Napa Valley Cabernets, this one stood out for sheer power and authority. It's absolutely delicious, dazzling showing blackberry tart, cherry pie with the sweet, smoky crust, cassis and baking spice flavors, wrapped into wonderfully thick, fine tannins. Pure California fruit, but dry, balanced and nuanced. A classic, but high-alcohol haters will find plenty to complain about. Drink now–2020.",Reserve,97,85.0,California,Atlas Peak,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Black Coyote
790,US,"Easily earns its high score for the sheer power and mass, equal to anything out of Napa. Erupts in the most complex blackberries, black currants, licorice and 100% new smoky oak flavors, with a spicy finish that goes on and on. The tannins are strong and fine and impressive. Not for the faint-hearted, and not a wine to drink now, as it will swamp food. Should begin to emerge after 2012.",Brenda's Vineyard,96,85.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Baldacci
791,US,"Still tight, and expertly crafted and structured, this single-vineyard estate wine is meticulous in velvety, plush texture, completely seductive at every angle. Rich red cherry, pomegranate and vanilla improvise against one another without ever missing a beat, finishing in fully integrated flavor. Drink now through 2022.",Katherine Lindsay Estate,96,85.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Paul Hobbs
792,US,"Cabernet Sauvignon doesn't get much more rich or ripe than this bottling. Made from grapes grown in Calistoga, this 100% varietal wine offers blackberry jam and crème de cassis flavors. Lots of new French oak influence adds sweet toast and caramel notes. Dramatically complex and powerful, this tannic selection will benefit from being cellared for a minimum of eight years, and it should continue to develop well beyond that time frame.",Bone Ash Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Venge
793,US,"This is a big, rich, dramatic Cabernet. The underlying fruit is spectacular, offering tiers of blackberries, black currants and cocoa, while 100% new French oak aging lends strong, but balanced, layers of toast. The tannins are ripe and sturdy, yet very finely ground. Really a beautiful example of the modern style, and should develop over the next six years.",Revilo Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
794,US,"This 100% Cabernet Sauvignon is aged in 85% new oak, and it shows the essence of Oakville in its dry, tannic, ripe and complex identity. It would be hard to exaggerate the excellence of the blackberries, black currants, black cherries, dark chocolate and oak flavors, which have a Christmas-pudding-like headiness. A hint of raisin suggests it approaches overripeness, yet it maintains superb control. The tannins and overall balance should help this age for many years, but it can also be consumed now.",Game Ranch Single Vineyard Selection,97,85.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
795,US,"A major league Cabernet, capable of extended aging. Blended with a few drops of Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot, it shows massive flavors of blackberries, cassis, dark chocolate and sweetly smoked cedar wood. Just superb and delicious, but tannic and locked down in astringency. If you can keep your hands off it, cellar this beauty. It should begin to come into its own around 2015 and go on for many more years.",Reserve,95,85.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Frank Family
796,US,"This outstanding wine shows the best features of Howell Mountain. It's gigantic in concentrated flavors of blackberries and black cherries, cocoa and cedar, with hints of wild herbs and even flowers. And although it's tannic, there's a mellow mouthfeel that permits drinking now. But it should age well through 2018.",Buckeye Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Piña
797,US,"This is a big, rich, dramatic Cabernet. The underlying fruit is spectacular, offering tiers of blackberries, black currants and cocoa, while 100% new French oak aging lends strong, but balanced, layers of toast. The tannins are ripe and sturdy, yet very finely ground. Really a beautiful example of the modern style, and should develop over the next six years.",Revilo Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
798,US,"Cabernet Sauvignon doesn't get much more rich or ripe than this bottling. Made from grapes grown in Calistoga, this 100% varietal wine offers blackberry jam and crème de cassis flavors. Lots of new French oak influence adds sweet toast and caramel notes. Dramatically complex and powerful, this tannic selection will benefit from being cellared for a minimum of eight years, and it should continue to develop well beyond that time frame.",Bone Ash Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Venge
799,US,"Deep gold, the color of honey, picked at 53° brix, this is unbelievably dense and concentrated. Yet with the acidity in place, this wine has balance, support, and depth. It's not a fat, sugary blob. This drinks like a Canadian icewine. Honey, tropical fruits, candied orange, butterscotch, butter and toasted nuts—it just keeps on going.",Ice Wine,95,85.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Riesling,Poet's Leap
800,US,"Acidity makes the mouth water, tannins provide a firm framework, oak is perfectly integrated, and the depth of fruit is impressive. Shows flavors of cherry tart, raspberry Newton, cola, buttered cinnamon toast and vanilla that are magnificent and decadent. Elegant and classy. Should negotiate the years through 2014.",Ellenbach Vineyard,95,85.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Semper
801,US,"This is so dry, minerally and richly complex, you'd swear you were drinking great French Chablis. Brisk acidity and a steely stoniness give the apricot and citrus fruits a backbone of iron and iodine. Oak is there, but subtly lurking in the background, lending a hint of buttered toast. A beautiful wine, classy and upscale for drinking now.",Cinghiale Vineyard Gerard's Blend,95,85.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Del Dotto
802,US,"Bob Betz calls this his first-ever “reserve style” wine from Bordeaux varieties. It started with a single barrel of Red Willow Cabernet Franc and evolved into this six-barrel blend. Le Parrain opens with whiffs of smoke, gun metal and rock weaving through the dense red fruits. Pipe tobacco and licorice flavors come into play from the barrel aging. As the wine slowly opens, the flavors expand and blend, and the textural quality that Betz refers to expresses itself in a graceful, three-dimensional finish.",Le Parrain Red Wine,96,85.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Betz Family
803,US,"This is a really impressive launch for this new brand. Although the bottle doesn't bear a vineyard designation, it's 100% Cabernet from the Morisoli Vineyard in Rutherford, which has produced superb Cabernets in the past from the likes of Meander, Galleron, V. Sattui and Sequoia Grove. Dry and full bodied, it has flavors of sour cherry candy and cassis that often define Rutherford, which are all wrapped into smooth, supple tannins. Beautiful as it is now, it's a wine you want to lay down. Best after 2017.",Inaugural Vintage,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Kadiem
804,US,"This bottling is quintessential Red Mountain in style, with potent aromatics of concentrated black fruits, gun metal and rock. Sourced from Ciel du Cheval, Obelisco, Force Majeure and Klipsun, it's a one-wine showcase for the AVA. The spectrum of fruit flavors is impressive, compact and deep, and despite the high alcohol it retains its precision and detail.",Lonely Heart,96,85.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Mark Ryan
805,US,"A major league Cabernet, capable of extended aging. Blended with a few drops of Cabernet Franc and Petit Verdot, it shows massive flavors of blackberries, cassis, dark chocolate and sweetly smoked cedar wood. Just superb and delicious, but tannic and locked down in astringency. If you can keep your hands off it, cellar this beauty. It should begin to come into its own around 2015 and go on for many more years.",Reserve,95,85.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Frank Family
806,US,"A brilliant Syrah, showing its cool-climate origins with a burst of white pepper. Much of the fruit comes from the Bien Nacido Vineyard, and the Syrah contains 4% Viognier. Firm tannins and fine acidity give this delicious wine structure, but it's mostly notable for the extraordinary depth and length of its blackberry, currant, teriaki beef, mushroom and cedar flavors. The wine easily stands up to 100% new French oak casks.",The Oracle of Delphi,95,85.0,California,California,California Other,Syrah,Sanguis
807,US,"This is the most expensive Pinot Noir Foxen has ever made, and guess what? It's also the winery's best. It bears rich flavors, offering tiers of smoky cherries, red currants, licorice candies, vanilla, sandalwood and spices. What's harder to describe is the sheer beauty of the texture and balance. Containing the explosive richness of a wine like this is a challenge, but winemaker Bill Wathan has managed to bring elegance to its power. The wine is high in alcohol, and it's not advisable to age it beyond 3 or 4 years, but it is incredibly delicious.",Sea Smoke,96,85.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Pinot Noir,Foxen
808,US,"Sourced from old-vine Bacchus and Weinbau fruit, this also includes 20% grapes from the estate's Heather Hill vineyard. The aromas are dense and penetrating, with a powerful mix of black fruits, ripe berries, smoke, earth, olive and coffee. From the first sniff to the last swallow, the flavors are beautifully integrated and the effect symphonic.",Reserve,97,85.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Abeja
809,US,"A blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah and Merlot, this is dry, smooth, rich and delicious, and it offers waves of ripe blackberry, crème de cassis, dark chocolate and charred meat flavors, plus the spiciness of sweet licorice and pepper. It can be consumed now, but it will also develop for 3–4 years.",Galaxy,95,85.0,California,Napa County,Napa,Red Blend,Terlato
810,US,"The second release of Figgins—a single wine produced by Leonetti's Chris Figgins—is astonishing. Tasted in a lineup of exceptional Walla Walla reds, it outshined them all. It's a sophisticated blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Petit Verdot and Merlot, from the Figgins Vineyard, with gorgeous aromas of flowers, spices and black fruits. Seamless and long, complex and forceful without being overpowering, it can stand alongside top tier Bordeaux costing four or five times as much.",Estate,98,85.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Figgins
811,US,"A powerful wine, this is only the fourth reserve Cabernet Sauvignon ever made by Abeja. Thick, black and redolent of new French oak, this is as close to a Napa Valley cult Cabernet as you will find this far north. The alcohol, which nears 16%, is beautifully handled and proportionate, but the wine's style is over the top and not suited to every palate. Best to drink this over the next 3–5 years.",Reserve,95,85.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Abeja
812,US,"A blend of four vineyards, this is an extremely impressive Merlot. It dazzles with rich, ripe black currant, cherry liqueur, raspberry, milk chocolate, smoky oak and spice flavors that are complex and go on and on through the finish. Beyond that is the texture, so refined and elegant, combining power and subtle elegance. Just a gorgeous, sensual Merlot. Drink now–2010.",Estate Grown,95,85.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Merlot,Duckhorn
813,US,"The winery's first reserve-level Cabernet, this is pure Cabernet from the Phinny Hill (60%) and Bacchus vineyards. It offers heady aromas of dried herbs, black currant, cherry, tobacco and graphite. The flavors are tightly wound, immediately accessible but fleshing out and ramping up in intensity after several days open. It shows impeccable acid and tannin balance and has a long life ahead of it. Best from 2020–2032.",Reserve,95,85.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Gramercy
814,US,"Homer is the estate reserve, wood-tank fermented and blended from the winemaker's best barrels. Aromatic and toasty, it takes many hours to open fully, revealing a dense core of ripe cherry fruit wrapped in a mélange of tasty, toasty barrel flavors. Along with the gorgeous fruit comes a cavalcade of chocolate, caramel and buttered nuts. Drink now through 2020.",Shea Vineyard Homer,95,86.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Shea
815,US,"Pure Cabernet from some of Washington's oldest vines at Champoux and Sagemoor, this is a superb bottle, dense, compact and textural. A full mix of black fruits underscored with clean, moist earth and polished, silky tannins, finishes with pretty barrel flavors of spice and vanilla. Broad, deep and immensely pleasurable.",Old Vines,95,89.0,Washington,Washington,Washington Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Woodward Canyon
816,US,"Mac Watson honors the memory of a wine once made by his mother in this tremendously delicious, balanced and complex botrytised white. Dark gold in color, it layers toasted hazelnut, pear compote and orange peel flavors, reveling in the succulence of its 122 g/L of residual sugar.",Special Selected Late Harvest,96,90.0,California,Knights Valley,Sonoma,Sauvignon Blanc,Macauley
817,US,"Easily one of the greatest California Merlots ever. Notable for its complete balance. Nothing sticks out; all the parts work together. The black cherry, plum, black currant, dark chocolate and licorice fruit is big, but perfectly balanced with smoky, sweet oak, while a subtle touch of violets brings a smack of the earth. The tannin-acid structure is just beautiful. Will continue to develop bottle complexity for at least six more years.",Reserve,96,90.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Merlot,Chateau St. Jean
818,US,"This sets a high standard for Oregon Chardonnay. Bright and snappy, yet deep and concentrated, it's a symphony of lemon, citrus, stone and tropical fruits, well-differentiated yet perfectly integrated. The extraordinary length and precise focus, along with the overall balance and structure, suggest that this should improve for many years to come.",Seven Springs Vineyard Summum,96,90.0,Oregon,Eola-Amity Hills,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Evening Land
819,US,"This wine is light on the palate, almost airy. The official alcohol reading is under 14%. Yet it packs the power of the world's greatest reds. Wild cherries and raspberries, with impossibly complex mocha, cola, anise, cinnamon and other flavors impossible to describe but endlessly fascinating. Gorgeous now, and should evolve for at least six years.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,96,90.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
820,US,"From Chilean winemaker, Aurelio Montes, this 100% Cabernet shows massively concentrated flavors of ripe blackberries and cassis, with richer notes of dark chocolate, anise, spices and smoky cedar. What an amazing tannin structure, intricate, fine and complex. A wine to drink now for sheer opulence or to age for at least a dozen years.",by Montes Aurelio's Selection,97,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Napa Angel
821,US,"Some wines are meant for immediate consumption. Others require age. This wonderful wine satisfies on both sides. It's softly rich and polished in tannins, with accessible blackberry, cassis and oak flavors. Yet it has the structure and depth to go for years. Now–2016, at least.",Paramour,95,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Blackbird Vineyards
822,US,"This is superstrong Cabernet Sauvignon, with precise, concentrated flavors of brambly old-vine fruit taking center stage. The wine spent 33 months in barrel and has the density and power to prove it.",Windrow Vineyards Reserve,95,90.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Tero Estates
823,US,"Here's one for the cellar. It's a big, dry, muscular wine, assertive in tannins, with mineral-driven blackberry and black currant flavors. Muscular and intense, it should provide great drinking starting in 2015 and for many years after. A very great expression of its vineyard, which is basically the old Beringer State Lane Vineyard.",Endre,95,90.0,California,Yountville,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Kapcsandy Family Winery
824,US,"The Frog is a bit reductive, a bit shy in 2009 and needs extra decanting. With proper breathing time, it shows inviting notes of violets and strawberries, and it gains concentration through the midpalate, with additions of cherry and an almost liquid minerality. An almost delicate version of this wine.",Bionic Frog,95,90.0,Oregon,Walla Walla Valley (OR),Oregon Other,Syrah,Cayuse
825,US,"A wonderful wine, delicious and satisfying, and another great example of the '07 vintage in Napa. Made of the five classic Bordeaux varieties, it's full-bodied, dry and richly tannic. The flavors are enormously complex, suggesting blackberries, cassis, olive tapenade and cedar, with a long, sweet finish. Already throwing some sediment, it should age well for the next ten years.",The Oracle,95,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Miner
826,US,"Soft, decadent and approachable, this Cabernet Sauvignon is blended with a little Malbec. It offers flavors of blackberry jam, black currant, dark chocolate and cedar that continue on the long, spicy finish. This is lovely to drink now and over the next five years.",Stagecoach Vineyard,95,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Patland
827,US,"So dry, so crisply acidic, so silky in the mouth, and so rich in flavor. This is a truly distinctive Pinot Noir. It shows the variety's elusive personality, now rich in cherries and currants, withdrawing into minerals and herbs. Yet the final impression is of fine, silky decadence. Should develop in fascinating directions over the next 6–8 years.",Buena Prierra Vineyard Helio Doro Block,95,90.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Brogan
828,US,"This is a stunningly powerful 100% Cabernet, rich in fruit and well-oaked, that shows the authority of Oakville in a great vintage. Flooded with cassis, black cherries, dark chocolate and cedar, it's nonetheless too young in brisk tannins to fully express itself. A joy to drink, but needs time. Best after 2009 and for many years after.",John C. Sullenger Vineyard,96,90.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Nickel & Nickel
829,US,"This is a stunningly powerful 100% Cabernet, rich in fruit and well-oaked, that shows the authority of Oakville in a great vintage. Flooded with cassis, black cherries, dark chocolate and cedar, it's nonetheless too young in brisk tannins to fully express itself. A joy to drink, but needs time. Best after 2009 and for many years after.",John C. Sullenger Vineyard,96,90.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Nickel & Nickel
830,US,"This year's Matriarch is very similar to Harlan Estate in structure, and in some ways, a superior wine, or at least more delicious now. Shows the most beautiful black currant, cedar, blueberry pie and Asian spice flavors. What makes the structure so gorgeous are the firm tannins. Ultimately, it's a refined, exquisite red wine. Hard to imagine a better one for drinking over the next decade, and just shows that price sometimes has no relationship to quality.",The Matriarch,98,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,BOND
831,US,"Quilceda's single-vineyard Bordeaux-style blend is 86% Cabernet Sauvignon, 8% Cabernet Franc and 6% Merlot. This has fine grained tannins—not soft, but polished, ripe, and rich. Tasted prior to its official release, the wine was still pulling together all of the complex barrel-influenced flavors; it tasted delicious, with notes of bourbon-soaked cherries, along with veins of espresso, cacao, dusty baking spice, and a liquorous finish.",Palengat Red,95,90.0,Washington,Horse Heaven Hills,Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Quilceda Creek
832,US,"So dry, so crisply acidic, so silky in the mouth, and so rich in flavor. This is a truly distinctive Pinot Noir. It shows the variety's elusive personality, now rich in cherries and currants, withdrawing into minerals and herbs. Yet the final impression is of fine, silky decadence. Should develop in fascinating directions over the next 6–8 years.",Buena Prierra Vineyard Helio Doro Block,95,90.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Brogan
833,US,"This is a stunningly powerful 100% Cabernet, rich in fruit and well-oaked, that shows the authority of Oakville in a great vintage. Flooded with cassis, black cherries, dark chocolate and cedar, it's nonetheless too young in brisk tannins to fully express itself. A joy to drink, but needs time. Best after 2009 and for many years after.",John C. Sullenger Vineyard,96,90.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Nickel & Nickel
834,US,"Texture is the name of the game here. We're talking pure velvet, the way the wine glides over the palate with hardly a wrinkle. Beyond the mouthfeel are flavors so complex, they're hard to describe. The blend consists of Cabernet Sauvignon, with contributions from Cab Franc, Malbec and Petit Verdot, and each grape brings its own distinction, as does 100% new oak. It's approachable now for the softness, and should glide through the next 6–8 years with ease. Expensive, yes, and only 344 cases were produced, but it's worth the search.",Reserve,95,90.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Chateau St. Jean
835,US,"A wonderful wine, delicious and satisfying, and another great example of the '07 vintage in Napa. Made of the five classic Bordeaux varieties, it's full-bodied, dry and richly tannic. The flavors are enormously complex, suggesting blackberries, cassis, olive tapenade and cedar, with a long, sweet finish. Already throwing some sediment, it should age well for the next ten years.",The Oracle,95,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Miner
836,US,"The Cabernet Sauvignon really sticks out, with its cassis flavors and big, tough tannins. Meanwhile, new oak adds lush layers of smoke, woodspice and buttered toast. The result is a tough young wine that needs time, and possibly lots. Don't think of opening it before 2011, and it should develop for many more years. Potentially great.",Black Cougar Ridge,95,90.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stonestreet
837,US,"Etude's Heirloom bottling is vintage-driven, and the 2005 is a great wine. It's a powerhouse that in its youth is full-bodied and almost heavy. It shows massive flavors of red currants, cherry pie filling, cola, figs and spices that taste like they were baked into a dessert pastry, except that the finish is thoroughly dry. What's hard to communicate is the wine's dazzling structure. Not meant to be opened now, it's a Pinot Noir to store through 2010, as it husbands its strength and gains bottle complexity.",Heirloom,96,90.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
838,US,"Etude's Heirloom bottling is vintage-driven, and the 2005 is a great wine. It's a powerhouse that in its youth is full-bodied and almost heavy. It shows massive flavors of red currants, cherry pie filling, cola, figs and spices that taste like they were baked into a dessert pastry, except that the finish is thoroughly dry. What's hard to communicate is the wine's dazzling structure. Not meant to be opened now, it's a Pinot Noir to store through 2010, as it husbands its strength and gains bottle complexity.",Heirloom,96,90.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
839,US,"Texture is the name of the game here. We're talking pure velvet, the way the wine glides over the palate with hardly a wrinkle. Beyond the mouthfeel are flavors so complex, they're hard to describe. The blend consists of Cabernet Sauvignon, with contributions from Cab Franc, Malbec and Petit Verdot, and each grape brings its own distinction, as does 100% new oak. It's approachable now for the softness, and should glide through the next 6–8 years with ease. Expensive, yes, and only 344 cases were produced, but it's worth the search.",Reserve,95,90.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Chateau St. Jean
840,US,"Sleek, smooth and elegant, with fine tannins that frame a wine that's flush with plum, cassis, anise, herb and chocolate flavors. Plush and velvety on the palate, it's got a finish that doesn't quit. Cabernet doesn't get much better, anytime or anywhere.",Profile,96,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Merryvale
841,US,"Soft, decadent and approachable, this Cabernet Sauvignon is blended with a little Malbec. It offers flavors of blackberry jam, black currant, dark chocolate and cedar that continue on the long, spicy finish. This is lovely to drink now and over the next five years.",Stagecoach Vineyard,95,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Patland
842,US,"Texture is the name of the game here. We're talking pure velvet, the way the wine glides over the palate with hardly a wrinkle. Beyond the mouthfeel are flavors so complex, they're hard to describe. The blend consists of Cabernet Sauvignon, with contributions from Cab Franc, Malbec and Petit Verdot, and each grape brings its own distinction, as does 100% new oak. It's approachable now for the softness, and should glide through the next 6–8 years with ease. Expensive, yes, and only 344 cases were produced, but it's worth the search.",Reserve,95,90.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Chateau St. Jean
843,US,"Some wines are meant for immediate consumption. Others require age. This wonderful wine satisfies on both sides. It's softly rich and polished in tannins, with accessible blackberry, cassis and oak flavors. Yet it has the structure and depth to go for years. Now–2016, at least.",Paramour,95,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Blackbird Vineyards
844,US,"Easily one of the greatest California Merlots ever. Notable for its complete balance. Nothing sticks out; all the parts work together. The black cherry, plum, black currant, dark chocolate and licorice fruit is big, but perfectly balanced with smoky, sweet oak, while a subtle touch of violets brings a smack of the earth. The tannin-acid structure is just beautiful. Will continue to develop bottle complexity for at least six more years.",Reserve,96,90.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Merlot,Chateau St. Jean
845,US,"Etude's Heirloom bottling is vintage-driven, and the 2005 is a great wine. It's a powerhouse that in its youth is full-bodied and almost heavy. It shows massive flavors of red currants, cherry pie filling, cola, figs and spices that taste like they were baked into a dessert pastry, except that the finish is thoroughly dry. What's hard to communicate is the wine's dazzling structure. Not meant to be opened now, it's a Pinot Noir to store through 2010, as it husbands its strength and gains bottle complexity.",Heirloom,96,90.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Etude
846,US,"A spectacular wine that gets better and better with every sip. It's dramatic from the get-go, with rich, fine tannins framing extraordinarily good flavors of blackberries, black currants, anise, dark chocolate and cedar. Superb structure, great length and finish, with perfect acidity. A joy to drink. Now–2016.",Illustration,97,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Blackbird Vineyards
847,US,"From Chilean winemaker, Aurelio Montes, this 100% Cabernet shows massively concentrated flavors of ripe blackberries and cassis, with richer notes of dark chocolate, anise, spices and smoky cedar. What an amazing tannin structure, intricate, fine and complex. A wine to drink now for sheer opulence or to age for at least a dozen years.",by Montes Aurelio's Selection,97,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Napa Angel
848,US,"Easily one of the greatest California Merlots ever. Notable for its complete balance. Nothing sticks out; all the parts work together. The black cherry, plum, black currant, dark chocolate and licorice fruit is big, but perfectly balanced with smoky, sweet oak, while a subtle touch of violets brings a smack of the earth. The tannin-acid structure is just beautiful. Will continue to develop bottle complexity for at least six more years.",Reserve,96,90.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Merlot,Chateau St. Jean
849,US,"Classic Howell Mountain tannins, powerful and focused, but ripely sweet, frame opulent cherry, cassis, plum sauce and new oak flavors, and for all that, there's a crisp edge of acidity that makes everything clean and bright. Drink now through 2012.",21st Anniversary Release,96,90.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,La Jota Vineyard
850,US,"A spectacular wine that gets better and better with every sip. It's dramatic from the get-go, with rich, fine tannins framing extraordinarily good flavors of blackberries, black currants, anise, dark chocolate and cedar. Superb structure, great length and finish, with perfect acidity. A joy to drink. Now–2016.",Illustration,97,90.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Blackbird Vineyards
851,US,"Ripe and delicious right out of the bottle, although it will age well. Made from a vineyard on the true Sonoma Coast, in the remote Fort Ross area, it's fabulously rich in cherry, framboise and red currant flavors, with intriguing waves of anise, bacon and sweet, vanilla-scented smoky sandalwood. There's a foresty taste, too, suggesting dried pine needles. The tannins and acids are near perfect. Stunning now, and should hold for at least six years.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,98,90.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
852,US,"This wine from Jordan Fiorentini is a stunning study in how to achieve extreme richness with elegance. Deep black cherry, violet, espresso, milk chocolate and vanilla pastry show on the nose. On the palate, chalky, soft tannins bring forth baked blueberry, star anise and clove flavors, with floral tones and acidic lift on the finish.",Block B Paderewski Vineyard,96,90.0,California,Paso Robles,Central Coast,Syrah,Epoch Estate Wines
853,US,"This has a grand array of exotic flinty, meaty, smoky and spicy aromas. The powerful flavors taste a bit restrained at first sip, then unfold and seem to expand on the palate. Pure and brilliant layers of ripe blackberry, smoked herbs and darkest chocolate ride on an elegant texture of fine tannins and supportive acidity. Drink from 2018–2030.",Ascent,96,90.0,California,Sierra Foothills,Sierra Foothills,Syrah,Terre Rouge
854,US,"Ripe and delicious right out of the bottle, although it will age well. Made from a vineyard on the true Sonoma Coast, in the remote Fort Ross area, it's fabulously rich in cherry, framboise and red currant flavors, with intriguing waves of anise, bacon and sweet, vanilla-scented smoky sandalwood. There's a foresty taste, too, suggesting dried pine needles. The tannins and acids are near perfect. Stunning now, and should hold for at least six years.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,98,90.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
855,US,"Marked by both reduction and oak, this wine feels lifted with acidity, opening in a vibrant shock of strawberry and Mandarin orange. Velvety layers subtle tannin carry a spicy finish of clove and salty sea air. A beautifully balanced, complete wine.",Two Birds Estate Grown,97,90.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Arista
856,US,"So dry, so crisply acidic, so silky in the mouth, and so rich in flavor. This is a truly distinctive Pinot Noir. It shows the variety's elusive personality, now rich in cherries and currants, withdrawing into minerals and herbs. Yet the final impression is of fine, silky decadence. Should develop in fascinating directions over the next 6–8 years.",Buena Prierra Vineyard Helio Doro Block,95,90.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Brogan
857,US,"First made in 2006, this succulent luscious Chardonnay is all about minerality. It's got a rich core of butterscotch and the seemingly endless layers of subtle flavors that biodynamic farming can bring. It spends 18 months on the lees prior to bottling. Drink now through 2028.",Sigrid,95,90.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Chardonnay,Bergström
858,US,"A stupendous Pinot Noir, showing how beautifully this vineyard performs in the remote Sonoma Coast above Fort Ross. Williams Selyem's last few vintages of Precious Mountain have been extraordinary, but this 2009 tops them all. The wine is as light as a feather in the mouth, modest in alcohol and delicately feminine, like pure satin. However, few Pinot Noirs in the world achieve this level of concentration. Wild raspberries and cherries, cola, sleek minerals, dusty baking spices and smoky oak combine for flavors that are utterly delicious. After all that, it possesses an indefinable attribute of fascination. Will age well for a long time, if you can keep your hands off it. Now–2021.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,99,94.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
859,US,"In recent years, Precious Mountain Vineyard has provided Bob Cabral with some of his most glorious fruit. Tremendous in flash and depth, it offers compelling flavors of raspberry and cherry, accented by sweet, smoky oak. There's such complexity in the acid and tannin structure, and in the earthy, stony, spicy nuances, that you find something new to love with every sip. This masterpiece is fabulous now, and will develop bottle complexity over the next 15 years, at least.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,98,94.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
860,US,"Fantastic, fabulous, a stupendously good Syrah that shows off Bien Nacido at its most perfect. Totally dry, with sturdy but ultra-refined tannins, it displays massive waves of blackberries, black currants, blueberries, smoked meat, violets, sandalwood and black pepper. Just beginning to find its groove, it should develop for many years.",Bien Nacido X Block The Good Nacido,97,95.0,California,Santa Maria Valley,Central Coast,Syrah,Qupé
861,US,"Expensive, yes, but a very fine wine, showcasing what Napa Cab can do at a world-class level. But you want to cellar it, because it's all primary fruit, unintegrated oak and tannins now. Beyond the sweet cedar application you'll find deep, noble flavors of black currants and minerals, wrapped into the finest tannins imaginable. Hold until 2013,at least, and should provide good drinking for many years.",Estate,95,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,David Arthur
862,US,"So young now, it's all primary fruit, oak and tannins. But It's a stunner. The fruit is enormous, packing explosive blackberry, black cherry, blueberry and dark chocolate flavors, while oak brings an elaborate smoky sweetness. Feels dramatic and important, and should age well for ten years, at least.",Best Barrels,95,95.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Blue Rock
863,US,"This is an extraordinarily ripe, flashy Cabernet Sauvignon, one of Duckhorn's new red wines that is among the most impressive in years. The wine is densely packed in sweet red and black currant fruit, chocolate and licorice flavors, wrapped into firm tannins, with a bone-dry finish. Just fantastic to experience now, and it should easily develop over at least a decade.",Monitor Ledge Vineyard,96,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Duckhorn
864,US,"Made entirely from Chardonnay, it shows real delicacy and richness, with a mousse as smooth as fine satin. Flavorwise, it's enormously rich, suggesting oranges, limes, honey, vanilla, toast and the sweet, yeasty doughiness of a brioche pastry. Really gorgeous, a worthy followup to the fabulous 2005 La Rêve.",Le Rêve Blanc de Blancs,95,95.0,California,Carneros,Napa-Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Domaine Carneros
865,US,"BV Private Reserve has been on a real roll. This Georges is enormous and impressive, gigantic in fruit, explosive in blackberry tart, cherry pie, blueberry, plum, cigar box and vanilla aromas and flavors. Structurally, it's an impeccable wine, showing the fine acidity and firm, dusty tannins that always constitute Georges. Beautiful now, and should age well for 10–20 years, in a cool cellar.",Georges de Latour Private Reserve,95,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Beaulieu Vineyard
866,US,"Expensive, yes, but a very fine wine, showcasing what Napa Cab can do at a world-class level. But you want to cellar it, because it's all primary fruit, unintegrated oak and tannins now. Beyond the sweet cedar application you'll find deep, noble flavors of black currants and minerals, wrapped into the finest tannins imaginable. Hold until 2013,at least, and should provide good drinking for many years.",Estate,95,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,David Arthur
867,US,"Unbelievably rich and decadent, this tastes of honey drizzled over crushed ripe pineapples, guavas and pears. Added hints of buttered toast, vanilla bean, caramel and sweet cream come with scads of savory pie spices.",Finch Hollow Estate Grown Cave Fermented,95,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Chardonnay,Jarvis
868,US,"Expensive, yes, but a very fine wine, showcasing what Napa Cab can do at a world-class level. But you want to cellar it, because it's all primary fruit, unintegrated oak and tannins now. Beyond the sweet cedar application you'll find deep, noble flavors of black currants and minerals, wrapped into the finest tannins imaginable. Hold until 2013,at least, and should provide good drinking for many years.",Estate,95,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,David Arthur
869,US,"Huge, rich and flamboyant, this hasa sweetness at its core—like the essence of red and black currants, with an elaborate note of caramel imparted from smoky oak. Yet everything about it is utterly and properly dry. The vineyard is in St. Helena, not quite in the Spring Mountain appellation, yet showing the fruit concentration firm tannins of mountain-grown grapes. Just a stupendous wine; try after 2016.",Patzimaro Vineyard,96,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Duckhorn
870,US,"You don't have to age this wine—Jarvis did it for you, holding it back more than five years before release, which is a very expensive proposition for a winery. It's a splendid Cabernet, with the tannins soft and velvety. The blackberry and black currant fruit flavors are as fresh and vibrant as the day the wine was bottled, an early indication of its ageability. This wonderful wine is so good, you can drink it now, but it will continue to evolve in the bottle for many years.",Estate,96,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Jarvis
871,US,"Williams Selyem expresses the intricacies of this vineyard with more consistency than any other winery. This remarkably intellectual, ageworthy wine is bone dry, with marked acidity and complexity. The flavors range from wild cherries, cola and balsam to raspberry tart and buttered cinnamon toast. Its complexity is like a mandala, increasing in beauty the longer one examines it. A softly tannic bitterness lingers on the finish; drink 2019–2030.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,97,95.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
872,US,"Sanguine and brooding in dense layers of juicy black fruit, leather and tobacco, this is classic Napa Valley Cabernet with an elegance at its core, that's also seamless, complex and age-worthy. From relatively cooler sites in Oak Knoll and Mount Veeder, and a cooler year too, this vintage sings for this producer, showing balance and power in equal measure.",Signature Series,96,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Darioush
873,US,"From an organic, dry farmed vineyard, this wine is as feral as the forest—a study in wild boar, wildflowers and dried herbs. Bright acidity buoys that meaty quality in the form of tart rhubarb and strawberry tea flavors. Floral on the nose and palate, it's spicy too, with bold seasonings of clove and pepper.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,95,95.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
874,US,"Williams Selyem expresses the intricacies of this vineyard with more consistency than any other winery. This remarkably intellectual, ageworthy wine is bone dry, with marked acidity and complexity. The flavors range from wild cherries, cola and balsam to raspberry tart and buttered cinnamon toast. Its complexity is like a mandala, increasing in beauty the longer one examines it. A softly tannic bitterness lingers on the finish; drink 2019–2030.",Precious Mountain Vineyard,97,95.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
875,US,"Signorello's proprietary Bordeaux blend is largely Cabernet Sauvignon, with Merlot and Cabernet Franc. If you're laying down '02s to cellar, this is a very good bet. It's shut down right now, but offers tantalizing hints of black currants and cassis that quickly disappear into a dry, tannic underworld. But the wine has the balance and authoritative class to age well beyond 2010.",Padrone,95,95.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,Signorello
876,US,"Quilceda Creek's single vineyard Red Mountain Cabernet Sauvignon has the heft and structure for decades of aging; to drink it anytime soon is folly. Massively oaky, spicy and loaded with chunky ripe fruit, it's full-flavored and big-boned; a young, raw Cab with unlimited potential.",Galitzine Vineyard,95,98.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Quilceda Creek
877,US,"Marked by its soft, mousse-like refinement, this sparkling wine is sheer silk and satin in the mouth. On the palate, the raspberry, lime and vanilla flavors are subtle, while leesy doughiness and oakiness bring a touch of smoke. This is a beautiful wine for a celebratory toast, or to enjoy with lobster, crab or scallops. It would also perfect a weekend brunch alongside plain old scrambled eggs and buttered toast.",Chinese Cuvée,96,98.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Iron Horse
878,US,"If you choose one wine to stick in the cellar from the '03 vintage, make it this one. It's so dry, balanced and complex, yet so tannicly tough now, that it demands a good 6 years, at a minimum. The heart of blackberries and red currants is opulently rich, with overtones of cedar, pencil lead, red licorice and sweet dried herbs. Brings to mind a classic Rutherford Cab. As delicious as the wine is now, especially with decanting, it really will benefit from aging.",Kronos,95,98.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Corison
879,US,"This is fabulously rich and spicy, showcases flamboyant flavors of blackberry jam, mocha and cedar, flecked with minerality and wrapped into refined tannins. As flashy as it is, it's balanced and dry, although the alcohol is on the heady side. This should provide great drinking pleasure over the next 10 years.",Cobalt,95,98.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Red Blend,Sherwin Family
880,US,"If you choose one wine to stick in the cellar from the '03 vintage, make it this one. It's so dry, balanced and complex, yet so tannicly tough now, that it demands a good 6 years, at a minimum. The heart of blackberries and red currants is opulently rich, with overtones of cedar, pencil lead, red licorice and sweet dried herbs. Brings to mind a classic Rutherford Cab. As delicious as the wine is now, especially with decanting, it really will benefit from aging.",Kronos,95,98.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Corison
881,US,"This one-of-a-kind offering from Chehalem celebrates what they are calling a “great” vintage. The wine is dark, supple and immensely rich and dense, yet retains a lightness that captures the elegance of the Pinot Noir grape while propelling it to rarified heights. The mix of red and purple fruits, herb, spice and earth all come together in a smooth and seductive wine that drinks like a dream.",Statement,95,99.0,Oregon,Ribbon Ridge,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Chehalem
882,US,"This one-of-a-kind offering from Chehalem celebrates what they are calling a “great” vintage. The wine is dark, supple and immensely rich and dense, yet retains a lightness that captures the elegance of the Pinot Noir grape while propelling it to rarified heights. The mix of red and purple fruits, herb, spice and earth all come together in a smooth and seductive wine that drinks like a dream.",Statement,95,99.0,Oregon,Ribbon Ridge,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Chehalem
883,US,"This one-of-a-kind offering from Chehalem celebrates what they are calling a “great” vintage. The wine is dark, supple and immensely rich and dense, yet retains a lightness that captures the elegance of the Pinot Noir grape while propelling it to rarified heights. The mix of red and purple fruits, herb, spice and earth all come together in a smooth and seductive wine that drinks like a dream.",Statement,95,99.0,Oregon,Ribbon Ridge,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Chehalem
884,US,"A massively constructed Chardonnay that's opulent and concentrated and bursts in the mouth with pineapple, lemon drop candy, Asian pear and white peach flavors of enormous ripeness. The entire production of 108 cases was aged in new oak, so there's a lavish veneer of sweet, smoky buttered toast. Sur lie aging is evident in the creaminess and ever so slight sourdough tartness that adds a piquant touch. This impressive Chard is at its best now in its flashy, flamboyant youth.",Pastorale Vineyard,95,100.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Freestone
885,US,"This is nearly perfect, a massive, monumental wine whose sheer power is matched only by its grace and refinement. The flavors of blackberries, cassis, dark chocolate, buttered toast and cedar flood the mouth, tightly controlled by firm tannins and good acidity. Decant for several hours if you open it now, but better to give it 6–10 years in the bottle.",Reserve,99,100.0,California,Oak Knoll District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Trefethen
886,US,"To call this a big Cab would be an understatement. It's a black-colored, saturated wine that detonates on the palate, offering a blast of black and red berries, currants, cassis, dark unsweetened chocolate, anise and fine, upscale new oak. But the tannins are fierce. Very fine, among the best St. Helena Cabernets of the vintage. Needs time. 2012–2020.",Estate,95,100.0,California,St. Helena,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sabina Vineyards
887,US,"This important Pinot Noir is expensive, but it is absolutely worth a search. It's not a single-vineyard wine, but a blend of various blocks from the cooler southern part of the valley. Oak, to the tune of 70% new, is very strong in char and vanilla, but way stronger is the fruit itself, which is exemplary and stunning. Raspberries, cherries and strawberries just begin to describe it, with all sorts of spice and earth complexities. Stuns with purity, complexity and sheer delicious power. Great now, and will easily develop over the next 6–8 years.",Five Sisters,97,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
888,US,"Hard mountain tannins characterize this Cab, which was grown above 2,000 feet in the Mayacamas. It's hugely deep in blackberries and black currants, with notes of dark chocolate and violets. Meanwhile, 100% new French oak adds an elaborate layer of smoky caramel and char that's entirely in keeping with the wine's volume. Impressive and flashy, but immature, this wine requires cellaring. Best 2012–2018.",Christopher's,96,100.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stonestreet
889,US,"Some great Cabs are drinkable when young, while others require patience. This is the latter sort. It's a tough, young wine, dominated by dusty tannins leading to an astringent finish. But it's incredibly fine, showing a balance and grace rare even in Napa Valley. As it warms up and breathes in the glass, it gets even better, giving tantalizing hints of ripe cassis and cherries that now are buried. You could open it now, after decanting, but it should begin to blossom in 2008, and will improve for many years.",Reserve,97,100.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Red Blend,Von Strasser
890,US,"A beautiful, classy Cab, marked by smoky new oak and very ripe blackberry and cassis flavors, with a streak of minerals. The vineyard is in the Vaca Mountains, in the valley's far east. You can taste the sunshine in the wonderful fruitiness, and the tannins are extraordinarily refined, but they're also aggressive. Fine now, with a long decant, but should develop bottle complexity over many years.",Cloudy's Vineyard,95,100.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Janzen
891,US,"An extraordinary wine, among the greatest Cabs in Flora Springs' long history. One hundred percent varietal, and made from a single clone, it shows fabulous density and serious weight, with dramatically rich blackberry, currant and cedar flavors anchored by a firm minerality. For all its power, the wine is balanced and elegant. An ager, it will drink well for at least a decade.",Rennie Reserve,96,100.0,California,St. Helena,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Flora Springs
892,US,"A masterpiece from this near perfect vintage. Completely ripe, classic and fresh, with oodles of red cherry and blackcurrant flavors that are generously oaked. Amazingly, the wine is still young and tannic. So beautifully structured, so smooth and polished, firm yet soft, just a gorgeous wine. Hold onto it until at least 2012, if you can.",Rubicon,97,100.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Red Blend,Niebaum-Coppola
893,US,"100% estate grown. More tannic and dense than the Cabernet, this is roughly three-quarters Cabernet, one-sixth Merlot, but replaces that wine's Cab Franc and Carmenère with Petit Verdot. The nose shows hints of mushroom, jasmine, blueberries, raspberries and dark chocolate. All in all a big but surprisingly subtle, scented, sensuous wine.",Reserve,95,100.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Leonetti Cellar
894,US,"A spectacular Pinot Noir, but a very young one, and extremely dry. It's a wine of great structure, with rich acids and tannins framing extraordinarily complex flavors of grilled cherries, strawberries and raspberries, with complicating notes of cola, pomegranates, orange zest, anise, dusty Asian spices and smoky sandalwood. A truly great Pinot Noir from a great vintage that needs time in the bottle to express itself. The vineyard, which is owned by the winery, is only 19 acres, planted to an array of newer and older clones. Best after 2013, if you can keep your hands off.",Litton Estate Vineyard,100,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
895,US,"There's a beautiful wine in here, but it's buried under tannins. Also, the fruit is all primary blackberry, blueberry, raspberry and cherry jam, while the oak stands to the side, insistent in vanilla and toast. Nothing has merged, everything is separated. Yet this is a great wine, easily the greatest Cabernet to emerge from Livermore Valley in memory. Beautiful now, and should develop for a decade.",Ghielmetti Vineyard Clone 4,95,100.0,California,Livermore Valley,Central Coast,Cabernet Sauvignon,Steven Kent
896,US,"What a wonderful wine. So pure, so fine and so Bordeaux-esque, like a fine young Margaux that needs time. Made from 100% Cabernet grapes, it shows classic blackberry and black currant flavors, beautifully oaked, with smooth, polished tannins and a fleshy mouthfeel. A feminine wine, it has great charm now, and should develop in the bottle for many years.",Rennie Reserve,95,100.0,California,St. Helena,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Flora Springs
897,US,"An amazingly rich, complex and ageworthy wine. Made from 100% Cabernet grapes, it shows firm, plush flavors of blackberries and black currants, with a sour cherry candy tartness that's clean and piquant in the mouth. But the wine is also very tannic, giving a dry astringency through the finish. Should reward time in the cellar. Best 2012–2018.",Hillside Reserve,95,100.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Flora Springs
898,US,"This is the best of the winery's new releases, both for drinking now and for cellaring. Combines power and elegance, with upscale flavors of cherries, currants, cola, rhubarbs, dried herbs and oak, wrapped into devastatingly rich tannins and a perfect touch of acidity. Should age well for 10 years.",Litton Estate Vineyard,98,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
899,US,"This wine is still young and precocious, but don't judge it too quickly. Let it air in your glass, and watch how it changes. One minute it's all cherries and smoke; the next it heaves up a great draught of currants, cocoa and cedar. It's a big wine but deceptive; the tannins are airy and lilting, there's charm and underneath, enormous complexity. It's best left alone for a few more years, but it's really very lovely now.",Private Reserve,95,100.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Beringer
900,US,"Hard mountain tannins characterize this Cab, which was grown above 2,000 feet in the Mayacamas. It's hugely deep in blackberries and black currants, with notes of dark chocolate and violets. Meanwhile, 100% new French oak adds an elaborate layer of smoky caramel and char that's entirely in keeping with the wine's volume. Impressive and flashy, but immature, this wine requires cellaring. Best 2012–2018.",Christopher's,96,100.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stonestreet
901,US,"This shows the extraordinary richness and complexity that the winery's estate vineyard has exhibited over its lifetime. It's vast in cherry, red currant and licorice flavors, plus multiple layers of sautéed mushroom, exotic baking spice, mineral and sweet, smoky sandalwood. It's also very tannic, with a brisk spine of acidity. Good as it is, it needs time for all the parts to knit together. Better after 2018.",Williams Selyem Estate Vineyard,95,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
902,US,"An amazingly rich, complex and ageworthy wine. Made from 100% Cabernet grapes, it shows firm, plush flavors of blackberries and black currants, with a sour cherry candy tartness that's clean and piquant in the mouth. But the wine is also very tannic, giving a dry astringency through the finish. Should reward time in the cellar. Best 2012–2018.",Hillside Reserve,95,100.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Flora Springs
903,US,"There's a beautiful wine in here, but it's buried under tannins. Also, the fruit is all primary blackberry, blueberry, raspberry and cherry jam, while the oak stands to the side, insistent in vanilla and toast. Nothing has merged, everything is separated. Yet this is a great wine, easily the greatest Cabernet to emerge from Livermore Valley in memory. Beautiful now, and should develop for a decade.",Ghielmetti Vineyard Clone 4,95,100.0,California,Livermore Valley,Central Coast,Cabernet Sauvignon,Steven Kent
904,US,"King Coal is 70% Cabernet Sauvignon and 30% Syrah from the Stoneridge Vineyard. Silky and seamless on entry, it pushes into a wine of power and punch. The fruit is complex and complicated, a mix of berry and cherry, with tart, tangy acid. While the wine is still primary, it has superb concentration and length, and it's beautifully structured for aging.",King Coal,95,100.0,Washington,Washington,Washington Other,Cabernet Sauvignon-Syrah,Charles Smith
905,US,"The best of Schramsberg's current bubblies, for the smoothness and finesse of its mousse and subtlety of flavor, high acidity and impeccable structure. Mainly Chardonnay, with 17% Pinot Noir, it shows a minerally firmness to the grilled peach, pear, green apple tart, pineapple and toasty, yeasty flavors. This should develop seamlessly over the next 10 years or longer.",J. Schram,96,100.0,California,North Coast,North Coast,Sparkling Blend,Schramsberg
906,US,"Hard mountain tannins characterize this Cab, which was grown above 2,000 feet in the Mayacamas. It's hugely deep in blackberries and black currants, with notes of dark chocolate and violets. Meanwhile, 100% new French oak adds an elaborate layer of smoky caramel and char that's entirely in keeping with the wine's volume. Impressive and flashy, but immature, this wine requires cellaring. Best 2012–2018.",Christopher's,96,100.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stonestreet
907,US,"A massively constructed Chardonnay that's opulent and concentrated and bursts in the mouth with pineapple, lemon drop candy, Asian pear and white peach flavors of enormous ripeness. The entire production of 108 cases was aged in new oak, so there's a lavish veneer of sweet, smoky buttered toast. Sur lie aging is evident in the creaminess and ever so slight sourdough tartness that adds a piquant touch. This impressive Chard is at its best now in its flashy, flamboyant youth.",Pastorale Vineyard,95,100.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Freestone
908,US,"To call this a big Cab would be an understatement. It's a black-colored, saturated wine that detonates on the palate, offering a blast of black and red berries, currants, cassis, dark unsweetened chocolate, anise and fine, upscale new oak. But the tannins are fierce. Very fine, among the best St. Helena Cabernets of the vintage. Needs time. 2012–2020.",Estate,95,100.0,California,St. Helena,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Sabina Vineyards
909,US,"This important Pinot Noir is expensive, but it is absolutely worth a search. It's not a single-vineyard wine, but a blend of various blocks from the cooler southern part of the valley. Oak, to the tune of 70% new, is very strong in char and vanilla, but way stronger is the fruit itself, which is exemplary and stunning. Raspberries, cherries and strawberries just begin to describe it, with all sorts of spice and earth complexities. Stuns with purity, complexity and sheer delicious power. Great now, and will easily develop over the next 6–8 years.",Five Sisters,97,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
910,US,"From the winery's own Westside Road vineyard, formerly called Litton, comes this grandiose, if immature, Pinot Noir. In its youth it's all about primary, jammy raspberry and cherry fruit. On the edges are fine acidity, smooth tannins and a perfect appliqué of oak. Shows the hallmarks of this great, emerging vineyard, but needs serious time to come around. Try after 2015.",Estate Vineyard,95,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
911,US,"Complex, classy winemaking is evident from the first sniff to the final sip. Savory notes of green tea and clean earth complement a terroir-driven wine. The notes and nuances pile on—flowers and fruits, cherry and cassis, with a whiff of barnyard and undergrowth. The lingering, expressive finish is already boggling, and seems sure to continue to evolve gracefully through 2025–2030.",Arcus Estate,95,100.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Archery Summit
912,US,"This is a best barrel blend of Goldeneye's several vineyards. It takes its beautifully ripe fruit from Confluence and the tannins of The Narrows to yield a dry, densely constructed and moderately ageable wine of exceptionally high quality and appeal. Blackberries, blueberries, cherries and exotic spices characterize the flavors of this tremendous wine, one of the best of the vintage out of the Anderson Valley. Only 222 cases were produced.",Ten Degrees,98,100.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
913,US,"Much in the style of Leonetti Cabernet, with the richness of Napa Valley fruit, this deeply satisfying, superripe wine is 100% varietal. Notes of cassis, fig and a hint of prune are swathed in deeper flavors of espresso and dark chocolate.",Champoux & Loess Vineyards Reserve,95,100.0,Washington,Washington,Washington Other,Cabernet Sauvignon,Boudreaux Cellars
914,US,"This is one of those Napa Cabs that tastes glamorous. Even people who know little about wine will taste it and go, Wow. And the longer it sits in the glass and airs, the better it gets. Bone dry, soft and smooth, it shows luscious black currant, plum, sage, spice and cedar flavors, wrapped into finely ground tannins that will enable it to age for a decade.",Bergfeld,95,100.0,California,St. Helena,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hall
915,US,"This important Pinot Noir is expensive, but it is absolutely worth a search. It's not a single-vineyard wine, but a blend of various blocks from the cooler southern part of the valley. Oak, to the tune of 70% new, is very strong in char and vanilla, but way stronger is the fruit itself, which is exemplary and stunning. Raspberries, cherries and strawberries just begin to describe it, with all sorts of spice and earth complexities. Stuns with purity, complexity and sheer delicious power. Great now, and will easily develop over the next 6–8 years.",Five Sisters,97,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
916,US,"There's a beautiful wine in here, but it's buried under tannins. Also, the fruit is all primary blackberry, blueberry, raspberry and cherry jam, while the oak stands to the side, insistent in vanilla and toast. Nothing has merged, everything is separated. Yet this is a great wine, easily the greatest Cabernet to emerge from Livermore Valley in memory. Beautiful now, and should develop for a decade.",Ghielmetti Vineyard Clone 4,95,100.0,California,Livermore Valley,Central Coast,Cabernet Sauvignon,Steven Kent
917,US,"As with previous vintages, this rare wine spent 38 months in barrel. Smooth and supple, it's a lush expression of purple and black fruits, generously endowed with darker flavors of smoke, tar, soy and licorice. There is a compelling, yet subtle, umami character overriding all else. It's drinking quite beautifully now, but could age considerably longer.",The Hustler,96,100.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,K Vintners
918,US,"Structurally, this is near perfect, with sturdy yet supple tannins and bright acids that perk up the flavors of blackberry jam, milk chocolate, red currants and crème de cassis. This is classic Napa Cabernet Sauvignon; it's great to drink now, but it will also slowly evolve in the bottle over the next decade.","Good Times, Bad Times Beckstoffer To Kalon Vineyard",96,100.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,World's End
919,US,"A beautiful, classy Cab, marked by smoky new oak and very ripe blackberry and cassis flavors, with a streak of minerals. The vineyard is in the Vaca Mountains, in the valley's far east. You can taste the sunshine in the wonderful fruitiness, and the tannins are extraordinarily refined, but they're also aggressive. Fine now, with a long decant, but should develop bottle complexity over many years.",Cloudy's Vineyard,95,100.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Janzen
920,US,"What a wonderful wine. So pure, so fine and so Bordeaux-esque, like a fine young Margaux that needs time. Made from 100% Cabernet grapes, it shows classic blackberry and black currant flavors, beautifully oaked, with smooth, polished tannins and a fleshy mouthfeel. A feminine wine, it has great charm now, and should develop in the bottle for many years.",Rennie Reserve,95,100.0,California,St. Helena,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Flora Springs
921,US,"A spectacular Pinot Noir, but a very young one, and extremely dry. It's a wine of great structure, with rich acids and tannins framing extraordinarily complex flavors of grilled cherries, strawberries and raspberries, with complicating notes of cola, pomegranates, orange zest, anise, dusty Asian spices and smoky sandalwood. A truly great Pinot Noir from a great vintage that needs time in the bottle to express itself. The vineyard, which is owned by the winery, is only 19 acres, planted to an array of newer and older clones. Best after 2013, if you can keep your hands off.",Litton Estate Vineyard,100,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
922,US,"This best-of-barrels blend shows the powerful tannins and dryness that mark all of Turnbull's 2009 Cabernets. It's a huge wine, powerful and concentrated in blackberries, black currants and sweet dark chocolate, with notes of spices on the long, dry finish. Drink it now, with the best beef entrée you can find. It should slowly develop bottle-age characteristics over the next 8–10 years, at a minimum.",Estate Grown Black Label,95,100.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Turnbull
923,US,"This is the best of the winery's new releases, both for drinking now and for cellaring. Combines power and elegance, with upscale flavors of cherries, currants, cola, rhubarbs, dried herbs and oak, wrapped into devastatingly rich tannins and a perfect touch of acidity. Should age well for 10 years.",Litton Estate Vineyard,98,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
924,US,"A beautiful, classy Cab, marked by smoky new oak and very ripe blackberry and cassis flavors, with a streak of minerals. The vineyard is in the Vaca Mountains, in the valley's far east. You can taste the sunshine in the wonderful fruitiness, and the tannins are extraordinarily refined, but they're also aggressive. Fine now, with a long decant, but should develop bottle complexity over many years.",Cloudy's Vineyard,95,100.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Janzen
925,US,"In a good vintage, which 2009 was, Silverado's Solo bottling is always worthy of aging. It would be a tragedy to open this 100% Cabernet before 2018, and even then it might be too early. Dry and full bodied, this offers complex blackberry and cassis flavors, with a grounding herbal quality suggestive of sage. The tannins are profound, making the wine tight now.",Solo,95,100.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Silverado
926,US,"A toasty yeast note has taken center stage of this blend of Chardonnay, Pinot Noir and Pinot Meunier, providing that uniquely Champagne-like accent to California's ripe strawberry, raspberry and lime flavors. Despite the ripe fruit flavors, the finish is dry and tart in acidity. It gets even better as it warms in the glass, displaying compelling complexities.",Étoile Tête de Cuvée,95,100.0,California,Napa-Sonoma,North Coast,Sparkling Blend,Chandon
927,US,"A wonderfully smooth, dry, complex young Cabernet, and yes, the tannins have that famous Rutherford dust. The wine is the opposite of a fruit bomb, with moderate alcohol and interesting flavors of herbs, cherries, blackberries and spicy sandalwood. As good as it is now, it should ride out the next 8–10 years.",Hillside Reserve,95,100.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Flora Springs
928,US,"Structurally, this is near perfect, with sturdy yet supple tannins and bright acids that perk up the flavors of blackberry jam, milk chocolate, red currants and crème de cassis. This is classic Napa Cabernet Sauvignon; it's great to drink now, but it will also slowly evolve in the bottle over the next decade.","Good Times, Bad Times Beckstoffer To Kalon Vineyard",96,100.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,World's End
929,US,"Grown in a portion of the winery's considerable holdings in the high Mayacamas range, this Cabernet is ridiculously rich and flamboyant in black currant flavors, wrapped into the ripest, densest, sweetest tannins imaginable. Exceptionally vibrant, intense and compact, it will develop bottle complexity for a good 15 years.",Christopher's,96,100.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stonestreet
930,US,"As with previous vintages, this rare wine spent 38 months in barrel. Smooth and supple, it's a lush expression of purple and black fruits, generously endowed with darker flavors of smoke, tar, soy and licorice. There is a compelling, yet subtle, umami character overriding all else. It's drinking quite beautifully now, but could age considerably longer.",The Hustler,96,100.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,K Vintners
931,US,"We can quibble over whether the cherries are red or black, or if it's persimmons or pomegranates, or if the mushrooms are fresh or sautéed, but that's the point. This wine is so complex, it initiates discussion. Fine acidity and rich tannins provide structure, and although the wine is silky enough to enjoy now, you really want to give it 6–8 years.",West Block,96,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Rochioli
932,US,"This is a best barrel blend of Goldeneye's several vineyards. It takes its beautifully ripe fruit from Confluence and the tannins of The Narrows to yield a dry, densely constructed and moderately ageable wine of exceptionally high quality and appeal. Blackberries, blueberries, cherries and exotic spices characterize the flavors of this tremendous wine, one of the best of the vintage out of the Anderson Valley. Only 222 cases were produced.",Ten Degrees,98,100.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
933,US,"This is a best barrel blend of Goldeneye's several vineyards. It takes its beautifully ripe fruit from Confluence and the tannins of The Narrows to yield a dry, densely constructed and moderately ageable wine of exceptionally high quality and appeal. Blackberries, blueberries, cherries and exotic spices characterize the flavors of this tremendous wine, one of the best of the vintage out of the Anderson Valley. Only 222 cases were produced.",Ten Degrees,98,100.0,California,Anderson Valley,Mendocino/Lake Counties,Pinot Noir,Goldeneye
934,US,"A single-barrel reserve, this wine is compact and concentrated—a perfectly melded blend of fruit, barrel and acidity. It's a refined, beautifully polished wine, with just a touch of butterscotch wrapped into the finish. Drink now through 2030. If enjoyed soon, give it some time in the decanter to open up.",Latifeh,96,100.0,Oregon,Willamette Valley,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Ayoub
935,US,"A masterpiece from this near perfect vintage. Completely ripe, classic and fresh, with oodles of red cherry and blackcurrant flavors that are generously oaked. Amazingly, the wine is still young and tannic. So beautifully structured, so smooth and polished, firm yet soft, just a gorgeous wine. Hold onto it until at least 2012, if you can.",Rubicon,97,100.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Red Blend,Niebaum-Coppola
936,US,"What a wonderful wine. So pure, so fine and so Bordeaux-esque, like a fine young Margaux that needs time. Made from 100% Cabernet grapes, it shows classic blackberry and black currant flavors, beautifully oaked, with smooth, polished tannins and a fleshy mouthfeel. A feminine wine, it has great charm now, and should develop in the bottle for many years.",Rennie Reserve,95,100.0,California,St. Helena,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Flora Springs
937,US,"Some great Cabs are drinkable when young, while others require patience. This is the latter sort. It's a tough, young wine, dominated by dusty tannins leading to an astringent finish. But it's incredibly fine, showing a balance and grace rare even in Napa Valley. As it warms up and breathes in the glass, it gets even better, giving tantalizing hints of ripe cassis and cherries that now are buried. You could open it now, after decanting, but it should begin to blossom in 2008, and will improve for many years.",Reserve,97,100.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Red Blend,Von Strasser
938,US,"This is the best of the winery's new releases, both for drinking now and for cellaring. Combines power and elegance, with upscale flavors of cherries, currants, cola, rhubarbs, dried herbs and oak, wrapped into devastatingly rich tannins and a perfect touch of acidity. Should age well for 10 years.",Litton Estate Vineyard,98,100.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
939,US,"This wine is still young and precocious, but don't judge it too quickly. Let it air in your glass, and watch how it changes. One minute it's all cherries and smoke; the next it heaves up a great draught of currants, cocoa and cedar. It's a big wine but deceptive; the tannins are airy and lilting, there's charm and underneath, enormous complexity. It's best left alone for a few more years, but it's really very lovely now.",Private Reserve,95,100.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Beringer
940,US,"An amazingly rich, complex and ageworthy wine. Made from 100% Cabernet grapes, it shows firm, plush flavors of blackberries and black currants, with a sour cherry candy tartness that's clean and piquant in the mouth. But the wine is also very tannic, giving a dry astringency through the finish. Should reward time in the cellar. Best 2012–2018.",Hillside Reserve,95,100.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Flora Springs
941,US,"Even in this vintage, which was not so great, Beaulieu has succeeded with this dramatic, classic Cabernet Sauvignon. It's absolutely delicious, offering a range of blackberry, black currant and cedar flavors, complexed with notes of chocolate, anise, sweet smoky leather and Asian spices. Beautiful now for its velvety softness, but has the inherent structure to last for a long time. Through 2014, and much longer if you like older Cabernet.",Georges de Latour Private Reserve,95,105.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Beaulieu Vineyard
942,US,"Silky on the palate, this offers exotic aromas of orange blossom and spicy cardamom. Juicy in fresh cherry, it combines structured elegance and plenty of power, amid a mouthwatering quality that's seductively delicious and yet just begs the question of how much more nuanced the flavors will be in time. Drink through 2022.",Williams Selyem Estate Vineyard,95,105.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
943,US,"Classic structured, firm and soft at the same time, with a lyrical, creamy mouthfeel. The tannins are evident now, but that is characteristic of a young Georges, and the reason it ages so well. The depth of blackberries, cherries and currants is unreal and persistent. This is one for the cellar and will age for at least a decade and probably far longer. Try to keep your hands off it until after 2011.",Georges de Latour Private Reserve,95,105.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Beaulieu Vineyard
944,US,"From one of three estate-farmed vineyards belonging to the producer, Bone Ash is dry-farmed and planted to old vines in volcanic soils, the minerality of which is divinely present in this wine. High-toned, balanced in acidity and softly structured, it offers a range of fruit, from sharp cranberry to jammy blackberry, changing in the glass over time. Complex and layered, it will cellar well through 2022.",Bone Ash Vineyard,95,105.0,California,Calistoga,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Venge
945,US,"Huge, tremendous, authoritative and impressive for its sheer volume. It just explodes in blackberries, cassis, dark chocolate, leather, dried herb and smoky oak flavors, with a tangy minerality. The vineyard is in the Stags Leap tenderloin, and the wine combines an approachable drink-me-now quality with obvious ageworthiness through at least 2016. Only 180 cases were produced.",Brenda's Vineyard,95,105.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Baldacci
946,US,"Beautiful from start to finish, but tannic, and not drinkable now, in the classic sense. The tannins are hard, and while they're very finely ground, they prevent the palate from full appreciation of the lush blackberries, black cherries, dark chocolate and herbs. Give this 100% Cabernet at least five years to begin to mellow.",Beckstoffer Dr. Crane Vineyard,95,110.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Knights Bridge
947,US,"100% estate grown, this truly exceptional Cabernet, Merlot and Petit Verdot blend opens with angular, vertical fruit flavors, stacked tightly and detailed with citrus, graphite and chalk. The layered mid-palate mixes grape, berry, cherry and plum, sweet and dense. The oak is applied moderately, not dominating as in past Leonetti reserves. It's a profound wine with a gorgeous, entrancing structure that is barely beginning its evolution. Flavors emerge in surprising succession, like spring wildflowers that pop up overnight. A remarkable achievement, and quite possibly the best wine ever made by Leonetti.",Reserve,97,110.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Cabernet Blend,Leonetti Cellar
948,US,"Marks a welcome return to the magnificence of the 2002, although more recent vintages haven't exactly been slouches. The '05 is amazing, a densely structured, deeply flavored Bordeaux blend that's mainly Cabernet Sauvignon. Shows classic notes of cassis, currants and black cherry liqueur, while 70% new oak adds enticingly rich layers of sweet toast and smoky vanilla. The tannins are pure, classic Napa, very refined and ripe, offering solid structural support with no trace of astringency. Beautiful now, and should slowly develop for many years.",Padrone Proprietary Red Wine,97,110.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Signorello
949,US,"Nearly 100% Cabernet Sauvignon, this firm young wine showcases Napa Cab at its best. It's powerful in cassis and mocha flavors, with complex spice notes. The considerable new oak fits in fine given the wine's size. Extraordinarily smooth and lush, it's beautiful now, but has the  structure to age for a decade. What a beauty.",Claret,96,110.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,Robert Foley
950,US,"Beautiful from start to finish, but tannic, and not drinkable now, in the classic sense. The tannins are hard, and while they're very finely ground, they prevent the palate from full appreciation of the lush blackberries, black cherries, dark chocolate and herbs. Give this 100% Cabernet at least five years to begin to mellow.",Beckstoffer Dr. Crane Vineyard,95,110.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Knights Bridge
951,US,"Nearly 100% Cabernet Sauvignon, this firm young wine showcases Napa Cab at its best. It's powerful in cassis and mocha flavors, with complex spice notes. The considerable new oak fits in fine given the wine's size. Extraordinarily smooth and lush, it's beautiful now, but has the  structure to age for a decade. What a beauty.",Claret,96,110.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,Robert Foley
952,US,"The opulence of this sparkling wine has to be tasted to be believed. It's far softer and silkier than the winery's companion new release, the 2005 J. Schram, but then the blend is the complete opposite. This one's mainly Pinot Noir, with the balance from Chardonnay. The Pinot Noir brings a warm, raspberry- and cherry-sauce richness to Chardonnay's limes and pears, while an extraordinarily delicious toastiness pervades the whole, as if it had been gently smoked. So enticing now, it's hard to keep from drinking the whole bottle, and you certainly can, but this is a wine that will age for 10–15 years.",Reserve,98,110.0,California,Napa-Mendocino-Sonoma-Marin,North Coast,Sparkling Blend,Schramsberg
953,US,"Quilceda Creek's Red Mountain Cabernet Sauvignon opens with a dense, exotic and luxurious nose: a mix of roasted coffee, dark fruit and Asian spice. At first it's quite dense and unyielding, but it opens slowly over a period of days—not hours—remaining dense and compact, with a remarkable array of dark fruits and barrel flavors. As with its companion reds from Quilceda Creek, this is a wine to cellar for decades.",Galitzine Vineyard,96,110.0,Washington,Red Mountain,Columbia Valley,Cabernet Sauvignon,Quilceda Creek
954,US,"Astonishingly rich, this is everything you want a Chardonnay to be. It's fantastically concentrated in pineapple, guava, green apple, pear and lime fruits; it's creamy and suave in lees influence; and it's brisk in acidity, despite undergoing malolactic fermentation. The texture is honeyed, with a perfect touch of smoky, new French oak. The estate grapes come from the winery's vineyard high up in the Vaca Mountains, east of the Silverado Trail.",Finch Hollow Estate Grown Cave Fermented Unfiltered,96,115.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Chardonnay,Jarvis
955,US,"This four-county blend is a selection of what the winemakers consider their best lots of the vintage. Made from 86% Chardonnay and 14% Pinot Noir, it most certainly needs some time in the cellar, as it's scoury right now. But its richness is already apparent: it shows complex toast, leesy yeast, crème brûlée, lemondrop sour candy and ripe pear flavors. A gorgeous sparkling wine that will benefit from at least 12 years of aging.",J. Schram,95,115.0,California,Napa-Mendocino-Sonoma-Marin,North Coast,Sparkling Blend,Schramsberg
956,US,"Killer juice. It has it all—focus, depth, detail and power. Spice and herb, punch and power, wrapped into a wine with bright, tight berry fruit and layer upon layer of earth, rock and herb. It surpasses the ability of language to describe it. But it needs time—a lot of time.",Skull Stonebridge Vineyard,97,120.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
957,US,"This Bordeaux blend is delicious, refined and ageworthy. It's dry and quite tannic now, but underneath the astringency is a beautifully balanced wine with intensely concentrated blackberry and dark chocolate fruit, with an earthiness. A terrific wine that should come into its own after 2017.",Harmonie,95,120.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Capture
958,US,"This dramatic, compulsively good Cabernet is the first Howell Mountain Cab ever from the winery. It's enormous and gigantic in volume, with blackberry and cherry pie filling, cassis and oak flavors that scream, yet the tannins are tight, and the wine is so dry, the rich fruit is cloaked in a veil of control. Really defines an important new step for this veteran winery. Drink now–2020.",Limited Release,96,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Charles Krug
959,US,"A fabulous, lush Pinot Noir, dry and silky. Crisp coastal acidity brightens the complex flavors of raspberries, cherries and spices, with sweet oak influences, and there's a rich tang of minerals from the earth. It's ridiculously delicious now, but with a tug of tannins, it should develop over the next six years, at least.",Quail Hill Vineyard Old Vines,95,120.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
960,US,"This is a devastatingly good Bordeaux blend from Howell Mountain. Based on Cabernet, it has all the flavor you could ask for in blackberries, cherries, cassis, chocolate, herbs, spices and sweetly smoked oak. But the structure is awesome. Near perfect tannins, soft and intricately firm, and grand acidity make for a total Cabernet experience. Tremendous now, and should age for years.",Obsidian,97,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Arkenstone
961,US,"A fabulous, lush Pinot Noir, dry and silky. Crisp coastal acidity brightens the complex flavors of raspberries, cherries and spices, with sweet oak influences, and there's a rich tang of minerals from the earth. It's ridiculously delicious now, but with a tug of tannins, it should develop over the next six years, at least.",Quail Hill Vineyard Old Vines,95,120.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Lynmar
962,US,"This dramatic, compulsively good Cabernet is the first Howell Mountain Cab ever from the winery. It's enormous and gigantic in volume, with blackberry and cherry pie filling, cassis and oak flavors that scream, yet the tannins are tight, and the wine is so dry, the rich fruit is cloaked in a veil of control. Really defines an important new step for this veteran winery. Drink now–2020.",Limited Release,96,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Charles Krug
963,US,"So softly delicious, so complex and sensually satisfying, this Bordeaux blend, which is based on Cabernet Sauvignon and contains all the other classic varieties, is truly a wine to savor. The blackberry and cassis flavors have an edge of chocolate, and the deliciousness is compounded by superbly ripe, sculpted tannins and a long but thoroughly dryfinish. Dazzlingly good, and could develop bottle complexity over the years.",Obsidian,95,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Arkenstone
964,US,"Without doubt this is a wine to cellar. It's massive in flavor, with the purist blackcurrant and cassis fruit you can imagine, and the huge plaster of sweet oak is perfectly balanced. Then there are the tannins. They're fine and complex, but gritty. There's an astringency throughout that a great steak will cut through, but it would be infanticide to open this before, say, 2010. Should improve through 2020 and beyond.",Monte Bello,97,120.0,California,Santa Cruz Mountains,Central Coast,Red Blend,Ridge
965,US,"So softly delicious, so complex and sensually satisfying, this Bordeaux blend, which is based on Cabernet Sauvignon and contains all the other classic varieties, is truly a wine to savor. The blackberry and cassis flavors have an edge of chocolate, and the deliciousness is compounded by superbly ripe, sculpted tannins and a long but thoroughly dryfinish. Dazzlingly good, and could develop bottle complexity over the years.",Obsidian,95,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Arkenstone
966,US,"So softly delicious, so complex and sensually satisfying, this Bordeaux blend, which is based on Cabernet Sauvignon and contains all the other classic varieties, is truly a wine to savor. The blackberry and cassis flavors have an edge of chocolate, and the deliciousness is compounded by superbly ripe, sculpted tannins and a long but thoroughly dryfinish. Dazzlingly good, and could develop bottle complexity over the years.",Obsidian,95,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Arkenstone
967,US,"This dramatic, compulsively good Cabernet is the first Howell Mountain Cab ever from the winery. It's enormous and gigantic in volume, with blackberry and cherry pie filling, cassis and oak flavors that scream, yet the tannins are tight, and the wine is so dry, the rich fruit is cloaked in a veil of control. Really defines an important new step for this veteran winery. Drink now–2020.",Limited Release,96,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Charles Krug
968,US,"This is a devastatingly good Bordeaux blend from Howell Mountain. Based on Cabernet, it has all the flavor you could ask for in blackberries, cherries, cassis, chocolate, herbs, spices and sweetly smoked oak. But the structure is awesome. Near perfect tannins, soft and intricately firm, and grand acidity make for a total Cabernet experience. Tremendous now, and should age for years.",Obsidian,97,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Arkenstone
969,US,"This initially tastes like young fruit, herbal, with a lot of stem and flower flavors, but with some heat at 16% alcohol. Nonetheless it's delicious, compact, enormously fruity, focused and flat out amazing. A perfect mix of flesh, fruit, earth, and typicity from this unique vineyard.",Heart Stoneridge Vineyard,98,120.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
970,US,"Killer juice. It has it all—focus, depth, detail and power. Spice and herb, punch and power, wrapped into a wine with bright, tight berry fruit and layer upon layer of earth, rock and herb. It surpasses the ability of language to describe it. But it needs time—a lot of time.",Skull Stonebridge Vineyard,97,120.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
971,US,"This initially tastes like young fruit, herbal, with a lot of stem and flower flavors, but with some heat at 16% alcohol. Nonetheless it's delicious, compact, enormously fruity, focused and flat out amazing. A perfect mix of flesh, fruit, earth, and typicity from this unique vineyard.",Heart Stoneridge Vineyard,98,120.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
972,US,"Graceful and aromatic, this 63% Cabernet Sauvignon, 37% Merlot is the top end wine from the estate-grown DuBrul vineyard. It has both elegance and intensity, and expresses power without falling prey to over-ripeness, excessive oak or other tricks of the trade. It captures the fruit and earth and herb of the Bordeaux grapes, tossing in hints of graphite and cedar and smoke. A wine that demands your attention, and warrants your applause.",DuBrul Vineyard Red,95,120.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Côte Bonneville
973,US,"Filled with black and red berries and stone fruits that have a smoky, grilled edge, this dramatic Cabernet-based Bordeaux blend hails from several great vineyards, mainly Stagecoach, which is up on Atlas Peak. It drinks well now at the age of four-plus years, showing lush fruit that's just beginning to dry out and achieve bottle bouquet. Feels sweet and soft in the mouth. A compelling, complex and nuanced wine of great elegance and allure.",Stature,96,120.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Kendall-Jackson
974,US,"This is a devastatingly good Bordeaux blend from Howell Mountain. Based on Cabernet, it has all the flavor you could ask for in blackberries, cherries, cassis, chocolate, herbs, spices and sweetly smoked oak. But the structure is awesome. Near perfect tannins, soft and intricately firm, and grand acidity make for a total Cabernet experience. Tremendous now, and should age for years.",Obsidian,97,120.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Arkenstone
975,US,"Graceful and aromatic, this 63% Cabernet Sauvignon, 37% Merlot is the top end wine from the estate-grown DuBrul vineyard. It has both elegance and intensity, and expresses power without falling prey to over-ripeness, excessive oak or other tricks of the trade. It captures the fruit and earth and herb of the Bordeaux grapes, tossing in hints of graphite and cedar and smoke. A wine that demands your attention, and warrants your applause.",DuBrul Vineyard Red,95,120.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Côte Bonneville
976,US,"Killer juice. It has it all—focus, depth, detail and power. Spice and herb, punch and power, wrapped into a wine with bright, tight berry fruit and layer upon layer of earth, rock and herb. It surpasses the ability of language to describe it. But it needs time—a lot of time.",Skull Stonebridge Vineyard,97,120.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
977,US,"This initially tastes like young fruit, herbal, with a lot of stem and flower flavors, but with some heat at 16% alcohol. Nonetheless it's delicious, compact, enormously fruity, focused and flat out amazing. A perfect mix of flesh, fruit, earth, and typicity from this unique vineyard.",Heart Stoneridge Vineyard,98,120.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
978,US,"Graceful and aromatic, this 63% Cabernet Sauvignon, 37% Merlot is the top end wine from the estate-grown DuBrul vineyard. It has both elegance and intensity, and expresses power without falling prey to over-ripeness, excessive oak or other tricks of the trade. It captures the fruit and earth and herb of the Bordeaux grapes, tossing in hints of graphite and cedar and smoke. A wine that demands your attention, and warrants your applause.",DuBrul Vineyard Red,95,120.0,Washington,Yakima Valley,Columbia Valley,Red Blend,Côte Bonneville
979,US,"Filled with black and red berries and stone fruits that have a smoky, grilled edge, this dramatic Cabernet-based Bordeaux blend hails from several great vineyards, mainly Stagecoach, which is up on Atlas Peak. It drinks well now at the age of four-plus years, showing lush fruit that's just beginning to dry out and achieve bottle bouquet. Feels sweet and soft in the mouth. A compelling, complex and nuanced wine of great elegance and allure.",Stature,96,120.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Kendall-Jackson
980,US,"Opens with aromas of black cherry and pencil lead, fruitcake and cookie dough; now it's all one big melange wrapped a bit tight. The balance and immense depth of fruit shine, even in this unevolved state. Standard dark-plum and chocolate notes are rendered with uncommon subtlety here. The finish goes on and on. Needs four to six years, but will last and last.",Insignia,95,120.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Joseph Phelps
981,US,"Youthful tannins star in this young wine. The wine is dry and balanced, with a fabulous core of blackberry, cassis and smoky oak. With a drop of Petite Verdot, which adds a touch of violets, this is one of the best high mountain Cabs of the vintage. Too dry and toughly astringent to drink before 2010;  should develop well through 2016, at least.",Reserve,95,120.0,California,Sonoma-Napa,Napa-Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Pride Mountain
982,US,"Filled with black and red berries and stone fruits that have a smoky, grilled edge, this dramatic Cabernet-based Bordeaux blend hails from several great vineyards, mainly Stagecoach, which is up on Atlas Peak. It drinks well now at the age of four-plus years, showing lush fruit that's just beginning to dry out and achieve bottle bouquet. Feels sweet and soft in the mouth. A compelling, complex and nuanced wine of great elegance and allure.",Stature,96,120.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Kendall-Jackson
983,US,"Youthful tannins star in this young wine. The wine is dry and balanced, with a fabulous core of blackberry, cassis and smoky oak. With a drop of Petite Verdot, which adds a touch of violets, this is one of the best high mountain Cabs of the vintage. Too dry and toughly astringent to drink before 2010;  should develop well through 2016, at least.",Reserve,95,120.0,California,Sonoma-Napa,Napa-Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Pride Mountain
984,US,"A fantastic Cabernet that stuns now for authenticity and power, and should develop for many years. Despite the large production, lower than that of many first growth Bordeaux, the wine, which has tiny amounts of Cab Franc and Petit Verdot, shows classic Oakville elegance and precision. Rich in black currants, blackberries, cherries and dark chocolate, it should hit its stride from 2011 through 2017.",Estate Bottled,96,125.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Far Niente
985,US,"A 100% Cabernet aged in 100% new French oak, grown in the warmer Conn Valley region east of the Silverado Trail. The wood contributes layers of toast and caramel, while the underlying wine is massive, with tiers of blackberries, black cherries, black currants, red currants, cedar and spices. Very dramatic and beautiful, but needs time. 2012–2020, at least.",Estate,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Parallel
986,US,"As rich as Napa Cab gets. Made solidly in the modern style, it's soft, elaborate and flamboyant, suggesting ultraripe blackberry pie, currant, mocha-choca and sweet oak flavors. The all-important tannins are smooth as velvet. Few Cabs are more delicious for drinking now, but longterm prospects are entirely unpredictable.",Coliseum Block,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
987,US,"Dark, viscous and monumental, this Cabernet-based Bordeaux blend detonates on the palate with black currants, chocolate and cedar concentration, wrapped into the most perfect tannins. Outstanding, and should age for many years. Only 277 cases of this wine, which was grown on steep hillsides, were produced.",Highland Estates Trace Ridge,97,125.0,California,Knights Valley,Sonoma,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Kendall-Jackson
988,US,"A fantastic Cabernet that stuns now for authenticity and power, and should develop for many years. Despite the large production, lower than that of many first growth Bordeaux, the wine, which has tiny amounts of Cab Franc and Petit Verdot, shows classic Oakville elegance and precision. Rich in black currants, blackberries, cherries and dark chocolate, it should hit its stride from 2011 through 2017.",Estate Bottled,96,125.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Far Niente
989,US,"As rich as Napa Cab gets. Made solidly in the modern style, it's soft, elaborate and flamboyant, suggesting ultraripe blackberry pie, currant, mocha-choca and sweet oak flavors. The all-important tannins are smooth as velvet. Few Cabs are more delicious for drinking now, but longterm prospects are entirely unpredictable.",Coliseum Block,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
990,US,"Rich and complex, this dry, terroir-driven wine completely avoids the sweet butter creaminess and jamminess of so many Chardonnays, showcasing instead notes of tropical fruits and pears. It's framed by minerals and even a fresh herbaceousness that suggests the wild plants growing around this Sonoma Coast vineyard. While the oak influences are strong, they are perfectly in keeping with the underlying volume.",Cinghiale Vineyard Family Reserve,96,125.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Del Dotto
991,US,"They call it east, because the grapes are from the Vaca Mountains, and the vineyard faces west. It's a splendid wine, classically proportioned, with rich, thick tannins that have true Napa refinement. The flavors are also classic, suggesting cassis and cedar, with a distinct smack of indescribable minerals. There's a lot of smoky new oak, but it's proportionate to the wine's power. This serious new Napa Cab is great now, and should develop for many years.",Exposure,95,125.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Oakville East
992,US,"A 100% Cabernet aged in 100% new French oak, grown in the warmer Conn Valley region east of the Silverado Trail. The wood contributes layers of toast and caramel, while the underlying wine is massive, with tiers of blackberries, black cherries, black currants, red currants, cedar and spices. Very dramatic and beautiful, but needs time. 2012–2020, at least.",Estate,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Parallel
993,US,"Based on Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc, this shows hard tannins and dryness despite the intensely ripe blackberries and cherries at its core. Two-thirds new French oak is not too much, adding balancing toast and wood tannins. This gorgeous wine will begin to come into its own by 2018, and should evolve for many more years.",Core Stone,95,125.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Oakville East
994,US,"This is a Pinot Noir of considerable force. Your first impression is of irrepressible power, with masses of fruit punching through an overlay of tannin and oak. Then the flavors fantail out, suggesting cherries, cola, currants and spices that are rich and complex through the long finish. For all its richness, the wine retains an agreeable delicacy of texture. Comprised of lots selected by winemaker Bob Cabral for this anniversary bottling, it's right up there with Williams Selyem's best 2010 Pinots, and just as ageable. Drink now–2022. The wine is only available as part of a two-pack from the winery for $250; the other bottle is the 2010 Morning Dew Ranch Pinot Noir, from Anderson Valley.",30th Anniversary Cuvée Estate Vineyard,97,125.0,California,Russian River Valley,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Williams Selyem
995,US,"This wine's blackberry and currant flavors are concentrated and ripe, and the notes of toasty new oak and chocolate gently ride over the fruit rather than overwhelming it. The spiced and sweet-tasting finish lasts for a full minute. Made from 95% Cabernet Sauvignon, this is one of the best Bordeaux-style wines from Santa Ynez Valley. Drink now–2015.",El Desafio de Jonata,95,125.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Jonata
996,US,"Based on Cabernet Franc, with splashes of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Petit Verdot, this complex wine is rich and softly tannic. It shows the fat, fleshy appeal of Cabernet Franc from the great 2007 vintage, and it has developed a mellowness from bottle age. It still offers oak-infused blackberry, cherry and dark chocolate flavors, plus emerging notes of herbs.",El Alma de Jonata,96,125.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Jonata
997,US,"Lush, rich, beguiling now. Tastes fat and unctuous, like a Pomerol despite being made from 100% Cabernet Sauvignon, offering a creamy wealth of cherries, currants, chocolate, anise, herbs, spices and smoky oak. For all the flamboyance, it's bone dry, with classically solid Napa tannins, courtesy of fruit from Oakville and Howell Mountain. Should develop in the bottle through 2018.",J. Daniel Cuvée,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Lail
998,US,"Dark, viscous and monumental, this Cabernet-based Bordeaux blend detonates on the palate with black currants, chocolate and cedar concentration, wrapped into the most perfect tannins. Outstanding, and should age for many years. Only 277 cases of this wine, which was grown on steep hillsides, were produced.",Highland Estates Trace Ridge,97,125.0,California,Knights Valley,Sonoma,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Kendall-Jackson
999,US,"As rich as Napa Cab gets. Made solidly in the modern style, it's soft, elaborate and flamboyant, suggesting ultraripe blackberry pie, currant, mocha-choca and sweet oak flavors. The all-important tannins are smooth as velvet. Few Cabs are more delicious for drinking now, but longterm prospects are entirely unpredictable.",Coliseum Block,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
1000,US,"Delicious, stunning and dramatic, this varietal Cabernet shows exquisite balance of its many parts. The tannins are fierce but refined; the dryness complements flavors of ripe blackberry, black currant and dark chocolate; its smoky oak is subtle; a refreshing acidity provides life and zest. The overall impression is of an extraordinarily fine wine, drinkable now but capable of aging over many years.",Ganymede Vineyard,96,125.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Chimney Rock
1001,US,"An extraordinary wine, this is one of the best offerings from Sequoia Grove. Everything is pitch-perfect: Its fine, ripe fruit flavors of blackberry, blueberry and black currant are balanced with earthy, herbal tones; its tannins are soft and rich, with a sharp acidity and a tasteful overlay of oak. Delicious as it is now, you'll want to cellar this wine for at least six years.",Cambium,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Sequoia Grove
1002,US,"Based on Cabernet Franc, with splashes of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Petit Verdot, this complex wine is rich and softly tannic. It shows the fat, fleshy appeal of Cabernet Franc from the great 2007 vintage, and it has developed a mellowness from bottle age. It still offers oak-infused blackberry, cherry and dark chocolate flavors, plus emerging notes of herbs.",El Alma de Jonata,96,125.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Jonata
1003,US,"This wine's blackberry and currant flavors are concentrated and ripe, and the notes of toasty new oak and chocolate gently ride over the fruit rather than overwhelming it. The spiced and sweet-tasting finish lasts for a full minute. Made from 95% Cabernet Sauvignon, this is one of the best Bordeaux-style wines from Santa Ynez Valley. Drink now–2015.",El Desafio de Jonata,95,125.0,California,Santa Ynez Valley,Central Coast,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Jonata
1004,US,"This is an extraordinarily rich and rewarding Cabernet to drink now. Drenched in all new French oak, it's elaborate in spicy, charred wood and vanillins, but the underlying wine easily supports that weight. It's flamboyant in blackberries, cherries, chocolate, red licorice and cola. The alcohol seems high, but that's in the modern style, and there's no denying the sheer lusciousness.",Beckstoffer To Kalon Vineyard,96,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
1005,US,"This is an extraordinarily rich and rewarding Cabernet to drink now. Drenched in all new French oak, it's elaborate in spicy, charred wood and vanillins, but the underlying wine easily supports that weight. It's flamboyant in blackberries, cherries, chocolate, red licorice and cola. The alcohol seems high, but that's in the modern style, and there's no denying the sheer lusciousness.",Beckstoffer To Kalon Vineyard,96,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
1006,US,"From a vineyard site at the southern end of Oakville, where it touches Yountville, this is a gloriously dusty, smooth and age-worthy wine, bright in crisp red cherry and cranberry while offering deeper, darker elements of licorice and toffee. Concentrated, it's substantial and yet balanced, with something to say on the long finish.",Beckstoffer Missouri Hopper Vineyard,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Janzen
1007,US,"A fantastic Cabernet that stuns now for authenticity and power, and should develop for many years. Despite the large production, lower than that of many first growth Bordeaux, the wine, which has tiny amounts of Cab Franc and Petit Verdot, shows classic Oakville elegance and precision. Rich in black currants, blackberries, cherries and dark chocolate, it should hit its stride from 2011 through 2017.",Estate Bottled,96,125.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Far Niente
1008,US,"Absolutely delicious and a joy to drink, this tastes like fine blackberry preserves spread onto buttered whole-wheat toast, sprinkled with cinnamon and black pepper. Despite the rich sweetness, the finish is bone dry. But the tannins are considerable, giving the mouthfeel a furry astringency. This elegant, pure, young Cabernet should begin to open in 10 years.",La Presa One South,96,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Montagna
1009,US,"A huge Cabernet, in the best sense of the word. It wasn't the easiest vintage, as 2007 was, but meticulous winemaking did the job, resulting in this amazingly rich, impressively ripe wine that's drinkable now and will develop for many years. The fruits veer toward blackberries, cherries and cola, and the tannins are soft and refined. One hundred percent new French oak isn't at all heavy, lending nuances of buttered toast and sweet wood tannins. Will easily age for 15 years.",Reserve,96,125.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Groth
1010,US,"This is an extraordinarily rich and rewarding Cabernet to drink now. Drenched in all new French oak, it's elaborate in spicy, charred wood and vanillins, but the underlying wine easily supports that weight. It's flamboyant in blackberries, cherries, chocolate, red licorice and cola. The alcohol seems high, but that's in the modern style, and there's no denying the sheer lusciousness.",Beckstoffer To Kalon Vineyard,96,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Carter
1011,US,"This is a big, age-worthy 100% Cabernet Sauvignon. Tasted now, it's dryly tannic, with the black currant and crème de cassis flavors buried under a cloak of astringency. New oak, which comprises 80% of the barrels, adds even greater tannins. Give this wine at least six years, and it should continue to blossom in a good cellar for another decade.",Alexander,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Volker Eisele Family Estate
1012,US,"One for the cellar. Shows a dramatic structure of firm, dusty tannins, brightened with acidity, framing complex, long and deep flavors of black currants, cassis, dark unsweetened chocolate, smoky cedar, anise and spices, undergirded by a firm minerality. Best after 2010 and through 2014, at least.",Estate Bottled,95,125.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Far Niente
1013,US,"An awesome Cabernet, so elegant, powerful and refined. As softly attractive as it is, it has a reserve of power that should enable it to age effortlessly. Ripe, sweet tannins house exorbitant flavors of blackberries and cassis, accented with new oak. It makes for a full-bodied, showy 100% Cabernet, drinkable now and over the next 15 years.",S.L.V. Estate,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stag's Leap Wine Cellars
1014,US,"A 100% Cabernet aged in 100% new French oak, grown in the warmer Conn Valley region east of the Silverado Trail. The wood contributes layers of toast and caramel, while the underlying wine is massive, with tiers of blackberries, black cherries, black currants, red currants, cedar and spices. Very dramatic and beautiful, but needs time. 2012–2020, at least.",Estate,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Parallel
1015,US,"Another successful Cabernet from Amici, who turns to this esteemed vineyard for sourcing. It shows real pedigree and finesse, and it's instantly appealing for its soft tannins and complex cherry, red currant, cocoa and spice flavors. Yes, it's expensive, but it's Amici's best Cabernet of the vintage, and this is as upscale as Napa Cabernet gets.",Morisoli Vineyard,95,125.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Amici
1016,US,"A massive 100% Cab from this veteran producer/grower, from the estate in the Chiles Valley District. Hard to exaggerate the lush, New World, cult-style power. High but balanced alcohol, massive new French oak, and a nuclear core of blackberries and currants. Somehow, it all works. A slam-dunk for aging. Drink now through 2018.",Alexander,95,125.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Volker Eisele Family Estate
1017,US,"Gigantic and impossibly tannic. Don't even think about drinking this Cabernet now. It's tightly wrapped in astringency, yet the molten core of blackberries, currants, blueberries and dark chocolate, and a firm minerality, almost guarantees extended aging through 2016, at least. It's a worthy followup to the 2006 and 2007.",Obsidian,95,125.0,California,Howell Mountain,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Arkenstone
1018,US,"There's good structure to this Cabernet, thanks to the firm tannins and ample acidity. But the flavors take the starring role, with raspberries, cherries, currants, mocha and cedar. It has a light, delicate mouthfeel, although there's nothing light about the taste. It's complex and ageable, so give it until 2020 to begin to come around.",Private Reserve,95,126.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Coomber Family Ranch
1019,US,"Awesome Cabernet from this esteemed vineyard in Oakville. Defines the modern Napa style in the perfectly ripe black currant and blackberry fruit, and the ultra-refined tannins. Hard to exaggerate the depth and length, the sheer opulence of this 100% Cab. It was aged in 80% new French oak, which adds even richer notes of wood smoke and sweet vanilla. Should evolve slowly through 2020, but only 75 cases were produced.",Beckstoffer To Kalon,97,130.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Alpha Omega
1020,US,"This low production, 100% Cab offers the most perfectly ripe black currant fruit, with complicating hints of pencil lead, violets, dark chocolate shavings and, of course, lots of toasty oak. The fact that it's now more than five years old has helped to mellow it, but the tannins are still quite hard. The beautiful estate vineyard sits high in the Vaca Mountains, which helps to account for the wine's intensity and concentration. This is truly a world-class Cabernet that will age through at least 2032.",Estate Grown Cave Fermented,97,130.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Jarvis
1021,US,"Awesome Cabernet from this esteemed vineyard in Oakville. Defines the modern Napa style in the perfectly ripe black currant and blackberry fruit, and the ultra-refined tannins. Hard to exaggerate the depth and length, the sheer opulence of this 100% Cab. It was aged in 80% new French oak, which adds even richer notes of wood smoke and sweet vanilla. Should evolve slowly through 2020, but only 75 cases were produced.",Beckstoffer To Kalon,97,130.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Alpha Omega
1022,US,"So delicious now, you can hardly keep your hands off it. Blackberry tart, ripe blueberry, cassis, milk chocolate, licorice and sweet, smoky cedar flavors flood the mouth, dramatically huge and memorable, and lasting long into the finish. The tannins are obvious, but sweetly ripe and soft. A brilliant evocation of Napa Cabernet, despite a high production level of nearly 30,000 cases, which is about the same size as a Bordeaux first growth. Shows the class and potency this bottling has exhibited for many years, and believe it or not, the price is a relative bargain these days. Drink now–2020.",Special Selection,97,130.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Caymus
1023,US,"Awesome Cabernet from this esteemed vineyard in Oakville. Defines the modern Napa style in the perfectly ripe black currant and blackberry fruit, and the ultra-refined tannins. Hard to exaggerate the depth and length, the sheer opulence of this 100% Cab. It was aged in 80% new French oak, which adds even richer notes of wood smoke and sweet vanilla. Should evolve slowly through 2020, but only 75 cases were produced.",Beckstoffer To Kalon,97,130.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Alpha Omega
1024,US,"Tasted in a big lineup of St. Helena Cabernets, Spottswoode's magnificent '05 stood out. It's a massive powerhouse, explosive in black currant, cherry pie, plum, chocolate, anise and cedar flavors that are detailed and precise. However, the wine, which was blended with a little Cabernet Franc, is graceful and balanced. Drinkable now due to its softly refined tannins, but has the integrity to ride out the years. Easy to find, with 3,896 cases produced.",Estate Grown,97,130.0,California,St. Helena,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Spottswoode
1025,US,"Made from various St. Helena vineyards, with some additions from eastern Oakville, it expresses all the beauty of Napa Valley Cab. The flavors of blackberries, black currants, chocolate, licorice and smoky cedar are absolutely delicious. Yet the wine possesses structure, not the easiest thing to achieve with a 100% Cabernet this rich. The wine should age well through 2020, but there's no reason not to drink it now.",Generations,95,130.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Raymond
1026,US,"This wine will divide aficionados. Some will find it too soft and fruity. Others will marvel at its sheer deliciousness. It's fantastically rich, a wine of deliriously decadent flavors, ranging from blackberry jam and crème de cassis to mocha, blueberry extract and buttered cinnamon toast. Yes, it's soft, but it's the softness of fine velvet. After all that richness, the finish is amazingly dry. Drink over the next few years to enjoy its youthful beauty.",Beckstoffer To Kalon Vineyard,97,135.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Janzen
1027,US,"Dusty tannins and notes of dried herbs give this vigorous young Cabernet a mark of immaturity that strongly suggests time in the cellar, despite flashy blackberry and black currant flavors. The winery has done a great job with fruit from the Dr. Crane Vineyard for several years, and this majestic wine is right up there with the great '07 vintage. Best after 2018.",Beckstoffer Dr. Crane Vineyard,95,135.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Knights Bridge
1028,US,"A massive wine, decadent and splendid, and a worthy followup to the near-perfect 2008. Densely packed in fruit, it explodes in blackberries, cassis, dark chocolate, minerals and sweet, toasty new oak. That richness is lifted to brilliance by the tannic structure, which is world class. So deliciously approachable, it's drinkable now, but it should develop over the next 6–8 years. Beyond that, all bets are off, because this modern style of soft, relatively high-alcohol wines has yet to prove itself over the long haul.",Family Reserve,96,135.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Venge
1029,US,"Beckstoffer To Kalon Cabs aren't always fabulous, because so many wineries source its fruit, but Knights Bridge has a great track record. This release is their best ever. Dry and soft in the mouth, it's drinkable now, yet so firm are the tannins that it will easily age. As for the flavors, they're incredibly complex in blackberries, black currant and licorice. Best now and through the next 10 years.",Beckstoffer To Kalon Vineyard,96,135.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Knights Bridge
1030,US,"This is a 40-40 blend of Cabernet Sauvignon and Petit Verdot, with the balance consisting of Merlot. It's a barrel selection of the winery's best lots, from its various vineyards, and has been aged in 100% new French oak. Yet it's not oaky at all, with the wood bringing only additional sweet, smoky richness to the red currants, cherries, dark chocolate and spices. This is a superb wine, delicious right out of the bottle, but it should develop and, depending on your tastes, improve over the next 20 years.",Reserve,95,135.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Von Strasser
1031,US,"This is so charming now, it's hard to keep from drinking it. But it also has the dynamic tension to age well. Chimney Rock enters a whole new ballgame with its 2009 releases, which can stand against almost anything in Napa Valley. With a fleshy mouthfeel, softly sculpted tannins and complex flavors of blackberry, cassis, dark chocolate and plum sauce, this wine is decadently delicious. Drink now–2020.",Tomahawk Vineyard,96,135.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Chimney Rock
1032,US,"Young and closed, with mint and oak accenting black cherry fruit. Powerful, elegant, smooth. Polished with big time tannins that are sweet and refined. Tremendous fruit. Should have a long, long life. Drink now–2020.",To Kalon Vineyard Reserve,95,135.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Robert Mondavi
1033,US,"A massive wine, decadent and splendid, and a worthy followup to the near-perfect 2008. Densely packed in fruit, it explodes in blackberries, cassis, dark chocolate, minerals and sweet, toasty new oak. That richness is lifted to brilliance by the tannic structure, which is world class. So deliciously approachable, it's drinkable now, but it should develop over the next 6–8 years. Beyond that, all bets are off, because this modern style of soft, relatively high-alcohol wines has yet to prove itself over the long haul.",Family Reserve,96,135.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Venge
1034,US,"The winemakers call this their Pauillac-style wine, meaning that its character is marked by Cabernet Sauvignon. It's a brilliant wine, vastly deep, imposing and elegant, with a potent mountain flavor of black currant. The estate vineyard is very high in the Mayacamas Mountains, and you can sense the small size of the berries in the wines intensity, the sheer concentration, as well as the tannins—which are hard and tight. Clearly this is a wine that requires time in the cellar. Try in 2018, but it could worth aging well beyond that.",Révélation,95,135.0,California,Alexander Valley,Sonoma,Cabernet Sauvignon,Capture
1035,US,"Beautiful wine, lush and soft in the style of this warm vintage. It's immediately enjoyable for the wealth of cherries, blackberries and raspberries, with a decadent edge of melted milk chocolate. Oak adds extra dimensions of smoky vanilla, caramel, butterscotch and gingerbread. Those who think they don't like red wine will enjoy. Hard to tell if it has the stuffing for the long haul, but it's gorgeous now and for the next six years.",Special Selection,97,136.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Caymus
1036,US,"Beautiful wine, lush and soft in the style of this warm vintage. It's immediately enjoyable for the wealth of cherries, blackberries and raspberries, with a decadent edge of melted milk chocolate. Oak adds extra dimensions of smoky vanilla, caramel, butterscotch and gingerbread. Those who think they don't like red wine will enjoy. Hard to tell if it has the stuffing for the long haul, but it's gorgeous now and for the next six years.",Special Selection,97,136.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Caymus
1037,US,"Leonetti's 2010 Reserve includes 52% Cabernet Sauvignon, 30% Merlot, 9% Cabernet Franc and 9% Malbec—a more complex blend than the 2009. It opens with a lovely floral aroma—a bouquet of clover and white flowers—then heads for the dark side, with black cherry and cassis. It's a big, tannic wine, beautifully crafted, and clearly differentiated from the winery's regular Cabernet bottling.",Reserve,95,140.0,Washington,Walla Walla Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Leonetti Cellar
1038,US,"Depth and texture dominate; it's all whole-cluster fruit, aged in new barriques. This fine follow-up to the 2006 features a little more delicacy, with a lovely floral component and some earth. The depth is astonishing in the weight and texture and the way the wine plays out across the palate. The finish never ends: a glorious mix of black cherry, earth, herb, spice, and rock.",Royal City Stoneridge Vineyard,99,140.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
1039,US,"A very fine Cab from the estate, which is in the north-central part of the Rutherford appellation. Judging from the tannins, it's too youthful to drink now, with a tight, astringent mouthfeel and fleshy, unintegrated oak. But the flavors are extraordinary. They flood the mouth with the essence of Cabernet, with ripe blackberries, black currants, raspberries and mocha, and the spicy finish lasts for a full minute. Give it until 2013, and it should provide great drinking through 2019, at least.",Red Wine,95,140.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Quintessa
1040,US,"This displays extraordinary fruit flavors, along with a dense, deep minerality. The flavors seamlessly blend berry, rock, graphite, fresh herb, and light barrel notes. But the fruit! Ripe and rich and aggressively full bodied. Berries piled upon earth and rock, and the flavors linger forever.",Old Bones Stoneridge Vineyard,96,140.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
1041,US,"A very fine Cab from the estate, which is in the north-central part of the Rutherford appellation. Judging from the tannins, it's too youthful to drink now, with a tight, astringent mouthfeel and fleshy, unintegrated oak. But the flavors are extraordinary. They flood the mouth with the essence of Cabernet, with ripe blackberries, black currants, raspberries and mocha, and the spicy finish lasts for a full minute. Give it until 2013, and it should provide great drinking through 2019, at least.",Red Wine,95,140.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Quintessa
1042,US,"Depth and texture dominate; it's all whole-cluster fruit, aged in new barriques. This fine follow-up to the 2006 features a little more delicacy, with a lovely floral component and some earth. The depth is astonishing in the weight and texture and the way the wine plays out across the palate. The finish never ends: a glorious mix of black cherry, earth, herb, spice, and rock.",Royal City Stoneridge Vineyard,99,140.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
1043,US,"A very fine Cab from the estate, which is in the north-central part of the Rutherford appellation. Judging from the tannins, it's too youthful to drink now, with a tight, astringent mouthfeel and fleshy, unintegrated oak. But the flavors are extraordinary. They flood the mouth with the essence of Cabernet, with ripe blackberries, black currants, raspberries and mocha, and the spicy finish lasts for a full minute. Give it until 2013, and it should provide great drinking through 2019, at least.",Red Wine,95,140.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Quintessa
1044,US,"This displays extraordinary fruit flavors, along with a dense, deep minerality. The flavors seamlessly blend berry, rock, graphite, fresh herb, and light barrel notes. But the fruit! Ripe and rich and aggressively full bodied. Berries piled upon earth and rock, and the flavors linger forever.",Old Bones Stoneridge Vineyard,96,140.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
1045,US,"This beautifully reflects the vintage as well as the place. There is astonishing density, length and detail—as much as any Syrah in the country. The deep, compact and impossibly complex flavors mix notes of black fruit, cassis, licorice, coffee, baking spice, smoke and Bourbon barrel.",Royal City,98,140.0,Washington,Washington,Washington Other,Syrah,Charles Smith
1046,US,"Depth and texture dominate; it's all whole-cluster fruit, aged in new barriques. This fine follow-up to the 2006 features a little more delicacy, with a lovely floral component and some earth. The depth is astonishing in the weight and texture and the way the wine plays out across the palate. The finish never ends: a glorious mix of black cherry, earth, herb, spice, and rock.",Royal City Stoneridge Vineyard,99,140.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
1047,US,"This displays extraordinary fruit flavors, along with a dense, deep minerality. The flavors seamlessly blend berry, rock, graphite, fresh herb, and light barrel notes. But the fruit! Ripe and rich and aggressively full bodied. Berries piled upon earth and rock, and the flavors linger forever.",Old Bones Stoneridge Vineyard,96,140.0,Washington,Columbia Valley (WA),Columbia Valley,Syrah,Charles Smith
1048,US,"This is easily one of the most delicious Cabernets of the year. The first sip dazzles, offering a treasure chest of flavors, including blackberry, spice, mocha and toasted oak. For all the richness, the wine is properly dry, and the tannins are as smooth as old silk. It's so approachable, it's hard to believe it's from Diamond Mountain, whose tannins are notoriously hard in youth. The one drawback is that the wine is too soft for aging, but who cares? Drink now–2015.",Checkmate,95,140.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Summers
1049,US,"Aged on the lees for 13 years, this wine has developed stunning creaminess and complexity. Made from 60% Pinot Noir and 40% Chardonnay, it shows a hazelnut smokiness, with fantastically rich, subtle layers of limes, apples, tangerine zest, minerals and yeast. There's a honeyed richness to the finish, which balances high acidity, making it feel dry. A tremendous brut that should develop for years to come. Now–2020, in a cool cellar. Production was 50 cases.",Joy!,98,147.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Iron Horse
1050,US,"With this bottling Goldschmidt runs with the big Oakville dogs. Classic, a dry, tremendously concentrated and oaky Cab with massive flavors of blackberry tart, cassis, anise, cocoa and cedar. So soft, you can drink it now, but the complex tannin structure and balance permit it to age for many years. The source is a tiny vineyard west of the Silverado Trail.",Single Vineyard Selection Game Ranch Plus,96,150.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
1051,US,"Irresistible is the word that comes to mind to describe this Pinot, which is available only in magnums. The vintage was California's finest ever, and the wine shows spectacularly ripe red currant, cherry, tangerine zest, licorice and beef jerky flavors, with just the right touch of smoky oak. Yet the structural balance of acidity and fine tannins gives it the perfect architecture. Best now in its flashy youth and for the next 4 or 5 years.",Precioso,96,150.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Keller Estate
1052,US,"The most tannic and closed of Vine Cliff's magnificent array of '07 Cabernets. It's hard, with a bite of acidity, but it doesn't take much for the richness to explode. Blackberries, black currants, dark chocolate, butterscotch, sweet cinnamon spice, the list goes on and on. So rich and decadent, you can enjoy it now, but it will gather momentum over the next 6–8 years.",Pickett Road Vineyard,95,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Vine Cliff
1053,US,"The most tannic and closed of Vine Cliff's magnificent array of '07 Cabernets. It's hard, with a bite of acidity, but it doesn't take much for the richness to explode. Blackberries, black currants, dark chocolate, butterscotch, sweet cinnamon spice, the list goes on and on. So rich and decadent, you can enjoy it now, but it will gather momentum over the next 6–8 years.",Pickett Road Vineyard,95,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Vine Cliff
1054,US,"A terrific Pinot, and one of the few that absolutely demands cellaring. The tannic structure is enormous, providing a sandpapery dryness to the palate. Yet the flavor explosion is so powerful, you can enjoy it now with utter satisfaction. Erupts in grilled blackberry and cherry, Dr. Pepper cola, bacon, anise, sautéed wild mushroom and smoky sandalwood flavors, leading to a spicy finish that continues for a full minute. Glorious and decadent. The winemaker was Sashi Moorman, from Stolpman, and the vineyard was planted in 1994 to the Calera clone. Only 115 cases were produced. Drink now–2017.",Occidental Vineyard,98,150.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Evening Land
1055,US,"A true sensation. Shows the richness and concentration you want in a great Napa Cab, but also a structure that lifts it above the soft, mushy wines that are so prevalent. There's real tannin and acid architecture framing the opulent blackberry, black currant, mineral and cedar flavors, and the finish is dry, dry, dry. Every sip offers something different as it changes in the glass. A world-class wine that defines elegance, power and complexity. Should age effortlessly for at least a decade.",16 Rows,97,150.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Vine Cliff
1056,US,"There are incredible aromatics on this Cabernet. It's powerful yet subtle (how can that be?), all about sweet, crushed summer blackberries and pure cassis liqueur. Elaborate oak, in the form of buttered toast, is perfectly in balance, never overshadowing the fruit. The tannins are dry, rich and smooth, defining Napa elegance, grace and beauty. World class, dramatic and just about perfect, this gets better and better as it breathes in the glass. Drink now–2030.",Elevation 1147 Estate,99,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,David Arthur
1057,US,"A very great Napa Cabernet by any standard. Defines the modern style of soft richness, with lavish flavors of blackberry tart, crème de cassis, blueberry, dark chocolate and the richest, sweetest toasty oak you can imagine. It's soft and ripe enough to drink now, yet shows a subtle structure that suggests aging for a decade. Possesses the extreme complexity and finesse that mark the greatest wines.",Stagecoach Vineyard,97,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Paul Hobbs
1058,US,"This marks another stellar vintage of The Traveler, an estate-grown block planted to a suitcase clone that seems to have found a happy place in Fort Ross-Seaview. Dark cherry and strawberry jump out of the glass, around a core of lush, spicy and decadent chocolate swirls. Buoyant in acidity, this is a gorgeous Pinot with lilting traces of orange and cranberry on the finish.",Estate Grown The Traveler,96,150.0,California,Fort Ross-Seaview,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Wayfarer
1059,US,"A very great Napa Cabernet by any standard. Defines the modern style of soft richness, with lavish flavors of blackberry tart, crème de cassis, blueberry, dark chocolate and the richest, sweetest toasty oak you can imagine. It's soft and ripe enough to drink now, yet shows a subtle structure that suggests aging for a decade. Possesses the extreme complexity and finesse that mark the greatest wines.",Stagecoach Vineyard,97,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Paul Hobbs
1060,US,"A true sensation. Shows the richness and concentration you want in a great Napa Cab, but also a structure that lifts it above the soft, mushy wines that are so prevalent. There's real tannin and acid architecture framing the opulent blackberry, black currant, mineral and cedar flavors, and the finish is dry, dry, dry. Every sip offers something different as it changes in the glass. A world-class wine that defines elegance, power and complexity. Should age effortlessly for at least a decade.",16 Rows,97,150.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Vine Cliff
1061,US,"An outstanding wine, the best California Cabernet Jean-Charles Boisset has ever produced from any of his properties. It stands out in any tasting of its peers. Made from 100% Cabernet Sauvignon, and aged in 60% new oak, it shows satisfying, complex flavors of blackberries, blueberries, cassis, hazelnut-infused chocolate and spices. Hard to exaggerate its power and grace. Wonderful now and for a good six years, but it's difficult to predict its evolution beyond 2018.",No. 1,97,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,JCB
1062,US,"The most tannic and closed of Vine Cliff's magnificent array of '07 Cabernets. It's hard, with a bite of acidity, but it doesn't take much for the richness to explode. Blackberries, black currants, dark chocolate, butterscotch, sweet cinnamon spice, the list goes on and on. So rich and decadent, you can enjoy it now, but it will gather momentum over the next 6–8 years.",Pickett Road Vineyard,95,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Vine Cliff
1063,US,"The first sniff and taste tell you this is an important wine, but also a very young, tannic one. It's the structure, and not just the ripe flavors, that's so impeccable, giving the wine its backbone and strength. But speaking of flavors, the wine is gigantic in black currants and blackberries. One hundred percent new French oak is completely in accord with the size. Drink now, with decanting, and through 2015 at least.",Select Private Reserve,95,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Marita's Vineyard
1064,US,"The multiple discoveries (the forgotten vines, the monks' secret recipe) behind Deborah Hall's project are fascinating enough, yet the golden orange wine is also utterly delicious. Old Fashioned cocktail-like aromas of maraschino cherry and orange rind mix with roasted nuts and a touch of brandy on the nose. Flavors of simmered honey, buttery whiskey and pear reduction entertain the palate, which benefits from remarkable acidity and grip, achieving utmost balance for a dessert wine.",Ancient Vine Angelica Marcelina's Vineyard,96,150.0,California,Sta. Rita Hills,Central Coast,Mission,Gypsy Canyon
1065,US,"A true sensation. Shows the richness and concentration you want in a great Napa Cab, but also a structure that lifts it above the soft, mushy wines that are so prevalent. There's real tannin and acid architecture framing the opulent blackberry, black currant, mineral and cedar flavors, and the finish is dry, dry, dry. Every sip offers something different as it changes in the glass. A world-class wine that defines elegance, power and complexity. Should age effortlessly for at least a decade.",16 Rows,97,150.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Vine Cliff
1066,US,"With this bottling Goldschmidt runs with the big Oakville dogs. Classic, a dry, tremendously concentrated and oaky Cab with massive flavors of blackberry tart, cassis, anise, cocoa and cedar. So soft, you can drink it now, but the complex tannin structure and balance permit it to age for many years. The source is a tiny vineyard west of the Silverado Trail.",Single Vineyard Selection Game Ranch Plus,96,150.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
1067,US,"A very great Napa Cabernet by any standard. Defines the modern style of soft richness, with lavish flavors of blackberry tart, crème de cassis, blueberry, dark chocolate and the richest, sweetest toasty oak you can imagine. It's soft and ripe enough to drink now, yet shows a subtle structure that suggests aging for a decade. Possesses the extreme complexity and finesse that mark the greatest wines.",Stagecoach Vineyard,97,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Paul Hobbs
1068,US,"The first sniff and taste tell you this is an important wine, but also a very young, tannic one. It's the structure, and not just the ripe flavors, that's so impeccable, giving the wine its backbone and strength. But speaking of flavors, the wine is gigantic in black currants and blackberries. One hundred percent new French oak is completely in accord with the size. Drink now, with decanting, and through 2015 at least.",Select Private Reserve,95,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Marita's Vineyard
1069,US,"A terrific Pinot, and one of the few that absolutely demands cellaring. The tannic structure is enormous, providing a sandpapery dryness to the palate. Yet the flavor explosion is so powerful, you can enjoy it now with utter satisfaction. Erupts in grilled blackberry and cherry, Dr. Pepper cola, bacon, anise, sautéed wild mushroom and smoky sandalwood flavors, leading to a spicy finish that continues for a full minute. Glorious and decadent. The winemaker was Sashi Moorman, from Stolpman, and the vineyard was planted in 1994 to the Calera clone. Only 115 cases were produced. Drink now–2017.",Occidental Vineyard,98,150.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Evening Land
1070,US,"As good as the winery's regular 2009 Cabernet is, this small-production selection from the estate vineyard is even better. However, as the tannins are fierce, it's not a wine you want to drink anytime soon. Through the astringency shines a bright, burning core of perfectly ripe blackberries and savory black currants. Flashy and impressive, this 100% Cabernet should begin to soften and mellow after 2018.",16 Rows,96,150.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Vine Cliff
1071,US,"The first sniff and taste tell you this is an important wine, but also a very young, tannic one. It's the structure, and not just the ripe flavors, that's so impeccable, giving the wine its backbone and strength. But speaking of flavors, the wine is gigantic in black currants and blackberries. One hundred percent new French oak is completely in accord with the size. Drink now, with decanting, and through 2015 at least.",Select Private Reserve,95,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Marita's Vineyard
1072,US,"Massive, decadent. Opens with extraordinary aromas of cedar, black currants, cherries, chocolate, sage, pepper and anise, with hints of roasted game. Feels very round, smooth but powerful. Almost sweet in red and black currants and chocolate. So refined, absolutely delicious. Beautiful, lush, complex, soft. Should age.",The Maiden,97,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Harlan Estate
1073,US,"Grown in one of the valley's best vineyards, it's eminently ageable. The flavors of black currants and minerals are intense and fine, complexed with new French oak. However, the strong tannins will jacket the wine for a long time before they begin to fall out. Don't even think of popping the cork before 2024, and it could be awesome in 2030.",M5 Stagecoach Vineyard,95,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Krupp Brothers
1074,US,"With this bottling Goldschmidt runs with the big Oakville dogs. Classic, a dry, tremendously concentrated and oaky Cab with massive flavors of blackberry tart, cassis, anise, cocoa and cedar. So soft, you can drink it now, but the complex tannin structure and balance permit it to age for many years. The source is a tiny vineyard west of the Silverado Trail.",Single Vineyard Selection Game Ranch Plus,96,150.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Goldschmidt
1075,US,"Irresistible is the word that comes to mind to describe this Pinot, which is available only in magnums. The vintage was California's finest ever, and the wine shows spectacularly ripe red currant, cherry, tangerine zest, licorice and beef jerky flavors, with just the right touch of smoky oak. Yet the structural balance of acidity and fine tannins gives it the perfect architecture. Best now in its flashy youth and for the next 4 or 5 years.",Precioso,96,150.0,California,Sonoma Coast,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Keller Estate
1076,US,"Classic Napa Cab, right up there with the greats. Somehow manages to combine monstrous power with understated elegance. The strength is obviously in the ripe fruit and elaborate oak, while the subtlety lies in the soft tannins and impeccable balance. It's a wine you return to over and over, trying to figure it out, but it's always a step ahead. Drink now, with rich fare, or age through 2020.",Cask 23,96,150.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stag's Leap Wine Cellars
1077,US,"This marks another stellar vintage of The Traveler, an estate-grown block planted to a suitcase clone that seems to have found a happy place in Fort Ross-Seaview. Dark cherry and strawberry jump out of the glass, around a core of lush, spicy and decadent chocolate swirls. Buoyant in acidity, this is a gorgeous Pinot with lilting traces of orange and cranberry on the finish.",Estate Grown The Traveler,96,150.0,California,Fort Ross-Seaview,Sonoma,Pinot Noir,Wayfarer
1078,US,"This rich, hearty and ultimately lovely blend of 82% Cabernet Sauvignon, 10% Cabernet Franc and 8% Petit Verdot still needs time to open up. When it does, expect dense and pure aromas of blueberry, black currant, graphite and nose-tickling spice. The palate's intense structure, though shy for now, reveals charred beef, coffee, caramel, black cherry and dried rose flavors. Drink 2019–2030.",Soul of a Lion,96,150.0,California,Adelaida District,Central Coast,Cabernet Sauvignon,Daou
1079,US,"Unbelievably rich and delicious, this is a joy to drink. It continues the winery's long record with this vineyard, reaching toward its apex with this 2009. Made from 100% Cabernet and aged in nearly two-thirds new French oak, it's elaborate, layered and complex, offering juicy notes of blackberry, black currant and dark chocolate, with sweet toast and vanilla flavors that continue onto the spicy finish. If you can keep your hands off it, this will develop over the next 10–15 years.",Martin Stelling Vineyard,96,155.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Nickel & Nickel
1080,US,"A deep color and aromas of toasted baguette, wood smoke and black cherry signal a classic style. The flavors are like dark-chocolate-covered cherries and cranberries. The toasted character of new oak barrels persists from the aroma to the finish, but it's well complemented by ripe fruit, an impressively tannic texture and lingering finish.",Estate,95,165.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hourglass
1081,US,"Very fine, rich and dramatic, a wine that feels important all the way through. Dry and vital in concentrated blackberry and currant flavors, with a rich appliqué of smoky oak, it announces its terroir with authority. But it's extraordinarily tannic, and needs lots of time. Try after 2015.",State Lane Vineyard Estate Cuvée,95,165.0,California,Yountville,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Kapcsandy Family Winery
1082,US,"Like a pastry shop in a glass, this rare treat of a well-aged bubbly smells of cream, butter and nutmeg, and tastes like baked apples, almonds and vanilla. Although not sweet, its generous fruit, spice and nut nuances build on the crisp but smooth texture and linger on the finish. From a cool vintage that produced long-lived wines, this is irresistible now but should keep through 2020.",J. Schram 50 Late Disgorged,97,175.0,California,North Coast,North Coast,Champagne Blend,Schramsberg
1083,US,"The most complete and compelling of Diamond Creek's trio of '02s, combining the opulent accessibility of Gravelly Meadow with the power and authority of Volcanic Hill. The aromas of cassis, red currants, cedar, tobacco and cigar box lead to massively packed Cabernet flavors wrapped in huge, dusty tannins. The wine is so balanced, so distinguished and complete. Decant now if you must drink it, but it should start to mellow by 2008, and then peak and hold through 2015 at least.",Red Rock Terrace,97,175.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Diamond Creek
1084,US,"Terlato's focus on Bordeaux-style red wines has paid off in the last several vintages, and this blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Petit Verdot continues the success streak. It has ripe, spicy flavors of blackberry jam, black currant and sweet, toasty oak, and the tannin-acid structure is balanced. Still, it's an astringent wine that needs time in the cellar, so give it at least eight years. It could age well beyond that.",Episode,95,175.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Terlato
1085,US,"Trefethen has been on a roll the last few years, producing some of Napa's most spectacular Cabernets. This bottling, which contains minor quantities of Petit Verdot and Merlot, spent 28 months in new French oak barrels. The fruit is incredibly ripe and intense, with flavors of black currants and chocolate-covered cherries. As hard as the tannins are, they must have been even more aggressive two or three years ago, so kudos to Trefethen for holding the bottle back for five years. This beauty is just now beginning its long journey. Drink now–2020.",HaLo,95,175.0,California,Oak Knoll District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Trefethen
1086,US,"This shows the Diamond Creek signature of dryness, mountain tannins and voluptuously ripe, concentrated fruit. It's dense in blackberry jam and cassis flavors, with firm minerality and a lush toast note from the oak. Near perfection in all of its parts, it possesses those hard-to-define qualities of balance and elegance. Wonderful as it is now, the tannins suggest aging it for many years.",Volcanic Hill,96,175.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Diamond Creek
1087,US,"Black in color, glyceriney. Massive, deep, tremendous. Some will find it overpowering in New World extraction, but it's a real beauty in that style. Explodes in black currants, chocolate and new oak, almost overripe, with suggestions of raisins. Almost dessert-like, but stays dry and elegant. Defines modern Napa Valley cult Cabernet Sauvignon.",Estate,95,175.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Staglin
1088,US,"Rich and powerful, with a molten intensity, this has loads of blackberry and cherry jam flavors, yet it has a minerally earthiness that grounds it and makes it endlessly complex. With its tannic profile and sweet oak jacket, this defines Napa Valley Cabernet—particularly from the mountains. If you can keep your hands off it, this will develop over the next 10–20 years.",Gravelly Meadow,96,175.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Diamond Creek
1089,US,"From the winery's estate vineyard, high up on Pritchard Hill above the Silverado Trail, comes this spectacular Cab-based masterpiece. The color is purple-black, and massively saturated. Very intricate, complex, totally enjoyable, almost perfect. Like a great Pauillac, this monumental wine announces cassis, blackberry, cigar box, pencil lead, spice and cedar flavors that go on and on. Very tannic, but so beautiful, and amazingly rich. Decant if you're drinking now, or open anytime through 2020.",IX Estate Red Wine,98,175.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Colgin
1090,US,"From the winery's estate vineyard, high up on Pritchard Hill above the Silverado Trail, comes this spectacular Cab-based masterpiece. The color is purple-black, and massively saturated. Very intricate, complex, totally enjoyable, almost perfect. Like a great Pauillac, this monumental wine announces cassis, blackberry, cigar box, pencil lead, spice and cedar flavors that go on and on. Very tannic, but so beautiful, and amazingly rich. Decant if you're drinking now, or open anytime through 2020.",IX Estate Red Wine,98,175.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Colgin
1091,US,"A bit difficult to approach now, this has tight tannins that lock down the wine with astringency. Blended with a little Petit Verdot and Malbec, it slowly reveals massive layers of blackberries, cassis liqueur and dark chocolate, remaining stubbornly tight throughout. Many people will drink it soon with beef, and that's fine, especially with a good decant, but it should reward even more with 8–10 years in a proper cellar.",HaLo,95,175.0,California,Oak Knoll District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Trefethen
1092,US,"Starts off as a closed, tight wine, aromatically speaking, and needs plenty of decanting to breathe, but once it starts to open, there's an eruption of the most refined cassis and cedar aromas. In the mouth, this is an immense Cabernet, profoundly deep in blackberry, roasted coffee and dark chocolate flavors. It is also enormously tannic, and is effectively locked down. Nowhere near ready, although decanting will help it, but it's best to hold this magnificent wine until 2007, when it should start to open, and then for at least 10 additional years.",Volcanic Hill,95,175.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Diamond Creek
1093,US,"Terlato's focus on Bordeaux-style red wines has paid off in the last several vintages, and this blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Petit Verdot continues the success streak. It has ripe, spicy flavors of blackberry jam, black currant and sweet, toasty oak, and the tannin-acid structure is balanced. Still, it's an astringent wine that needs time in the cellar, so give it at least eight years. It could age well beyond that.",Episode,95,175.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Terlato
1094,US,"This wine is entirely Cabernet, using grapes from the southerly Coombsville area and warmer St. Helena. As such, it's wonderfully balanced, with a sprightly burst of acidity brightening succulent flavors of black cherry and dark chocolate. The use of 100% new French oak sounds excessive on paper, but it's perfectly integrated, providing a jacket of sweet buttered toast that in no way overshadows the fruit. Enjoy it now and over the next 10 years as it ages.",Cor Leonis,95,175.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Moone-Tsai
1095,US,"Trefethen has been on a roll the last few years, producing some of Napa's most spectacular Cabernets. This bottling, which contains minor quantities of Petit Verdot and Merlot, spent 28 months in new French oak barrels. The fruit is incredibly ripe and intense, with flavors of black currants and chocolate-covered cherries. As hard as the tannins are, they must have been even more aggressive two or three years ago, so kudos to Trefethen for holding the bottle back for five years. This beauty is just now beginning its long journey. Drink now–2020.",HaLo,95,175.0,California,Oak Knoll District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Trefethen
1096,US,"The ripest of Diamond Creek's new '09 Cabernets, Red Rock shows a sun-blasted quality of red currants, blueberry and cassis. Heady and exotic, this is rich in tannins and noble in acidity. While it's a joy to drink now and over the next eight years, its extreme ripeness may limit its longterm ageability.",Red Rock Terrace,95,175.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Diamond Creek
1097,US,"This very expensive release is one of the rare examples of Chardonnay that absolutely requires bottle age. Dry and leesy now, with a mineral compactness, it shows a rich core of baked peach, spiced apple, butterscotch and smoky honey. As it warms in the glass, it develops great flavor and textural complexities. Should come into its own by 2009, and improve for many years after.",Ambassador's 1953 Vineyard,96,180.0,California,Sonoma Valley,Sonoma,Chardonnay,Hanzell
1098,US,"Stunning. Explodes with the most intricately detailed aromas: a perfume of fine smoky oak and ripe black currants. Exudes sheer power, with great weight yet no heaviness. Lush and delicious, but just tannic enough. If you can wait, cellar until 2008, it should hold and improve for many years.",Eisele Vineyard,96,185.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Araujo
1099,US,"With its sophisticated mix of mineral, acid and tart fruits, this seductive effort pleases from start to finish. Supple and dense, it's got strawberry, blueberry, plum and black cherry, a touch of chocolate, and that underlying streak of mineral. All these elements are in good proportion and finish with an appealing silky texture. It's delicious already, but give it another decade for full enjoyment. Drink now through 2028.",Grace Vineyard,95,185.0,Oregon,Dundee Hills,Willamette Valley,Pinot Noir,Domaine Serene
1100,US,"Stunning. Explodes with the most intricately detailed aromas: a perfume of fine smoky oak and ripe black currants. Exudes sheer power, with great weight yet no heaviness. Lush and delicious, but just tannic enough. If you can wait, cellar until 2008, it should hold and improve for many years.",Eisele Vineyard,96,185.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Araujo
1101,US,"The producer's highest-end bottling, this is tightly wound in fine-grained tannins with complex, diverse undertones of chocolate mocha, cherry-vanilla, black tea and garrigue. Layered and balanced, it sends gentle waves of black currant and cassis to the palate, a floral element lurking behind the proceedings. This well-made wine will cellar nicely, through 2032.",Pedregal Vineyard,95,185.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Ramey
1102,US,"This multivintage bottling is extraordinarily rich in orange fruit. You'll find complex layers of smoky butter, yeasty brioche, vanilla and toasted oak. What's so remarkable, though, is the mouthfeel: While it's brisk in acidity, it feels as soft and gentle as satin. It's so beautiful now that you'll find it difficult to keep from drinking the entire magnum immediately.",Joy!,97,189.0,California,Green Valley,Sonoma,Sparkling Blend,Iron Horse
1103,US,"The impression is of a young, tannicly closed but enormously promising Cabernet. Floods the mouth with dramatic black currant, cherry and chocolate flavors, masses of toasty, caramelized new oak, and a rich, minerally earthiness. For all the power, there's elegance and refinement. If you must drink it now, decant it; best 2008–2015.",Hillside Select,97,190.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Shafer
1104,US,"The impression is of a young, tannicly closed but enormously promising Cabernet. Floods the mouth with dramatic black currant, cherry and chocolate flavors, masses of toasty, caramelized new oak, and a rich, minerally earthiness. For all the power, there's elegance and refinement. If you must drink it now, decant it; best 2008–2015.",Hillside Select,97,190.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Shafer
1105,US,"One sip is all it takes to fall in love with this 100% Cabernet, which hails from the winery's Stags Leap District vineyards. It's soft, lush and opulent in blackberry, cherry, blueberry, cassis, dark chocolate and smoky oak flavors. Although it was aged in 100% new French oak, the oak isn't at all heavy. Rather, it's perfect, adding just the right touch of smoke. Really fabulous, and the tannins define Stags Leap, so strong yet sweetly refined. If you can keep your hands off it, this is a wine to cellar for many years.",Cask 23 Estate,97,195.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Stag's Leap Wine Cellars
1106,US,"Young and succulent, this is fresh, with ripe flavors of blackberries, cassis, chocolate and herb, with a toasty overlay of oak. Powerful, but not overbearing, this shows an internal coherence that lifts it to a high level of elegant complexity. As good as it is, it will benefit from 8-12 years in a proper cellar.",Ardore,96,195.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Celani Family Vineyards
1107,US,"A magical blend of 93% Cabernet Sauvignon, 5% Petit Verdot and 2% Cabernet Franc, this estate-crafted blend exudes elegance, etching out silos of herb, lavender, cedar and earth around savory-laced texture. A powerful concentration of dark chocolate appears on the lengthy finish, the wine sourced from dry-farmed, impeccably tended vines. Cellar through 2027.",Estate Bottled,95,199.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Dominus
1108,US,"A magical blend of 93% Cabernet Sauvignon, 5% Petit Verdot and 2% Cabernet Franc, this estate-crafted blend exudes elegance, etching out silos of herb, lavender, cedar and earth around savory-laced texture. A powerful concentration of dark chocolate appears on the lengthy finish, the wine sourced from dry-farmed, impeccably tended vines. Cellar through 2027.",Estate Bottled,95,199.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Dominus
1109,US,"Solidly in the Hillside Select model, this vigorous young Cab is dramatically ripe and powerful. The flavors of red and black currants, milk chocolate, figs and smoky vanilla erupt in the mouth, making the tastebuds jump with joy. However, there is also the structure, among the greatest in California Cabs. The acidity is fine, but the tannins are stupendously rich, sweet and complex, practically a food group in themselves. Stunning and gorgeous now in its youth, this collectible wine will reward at least through 2015.",Hillside Select,96,200.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Shafer
1110,US,"Tasted in October, 2007, the wine was mute, offering little aromatically except for teasing notes of blackberries and oak. That shyness extended to the taste, where strong, hard tannins provide an almost impenetrable coat of armor to what's inside. But right down the middle of the palate is a deep, intensely powerful stream of perfectly ripened cassis that's all the proof you need of ageability. This is a magnificently structured young wine, reminiscent of a fine young Pauillac. Best after 2012, and should have another decade after that, at least.",Insignia,97,200.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Joseph Phelps
1111,US,"This wine continues a long-standing tradition, showing a mastery of the art of blending. It's made using grapes that are sourced from at least six vineyards scattered from Yountville to St. Helena. Right out of the bottle, it's a soft, smoothly tannic wine that's rich in blackberry jam, black currant, blueberry, raspberry, dark chocolate and spice flavors. The wine, which contains small amounts of Petit Verdot and Malbec, is so powerful, it easily carries the 100% new French oak. Just gorgeous now, and it should develop bottle complexity for at least the next 10 years.",Insignia Estate Grown,96,200.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Red Blend,Joseph Phelps
1112,US,"It's impossible for a Cabernet to be richer, more opulent or more hedonistically stunning on opening than this beauty from veteran Phelps. Admittedly, there are significant tannins. But the wine delivers a broadside of the sweetest, ripest cassis fruit imaginable, along with richly toasted oak. It's the kind of Cab that will dazzle even an amateur. Absolutely gorgeous now, with immaculate elegance. About the only criticism you can offer is that the structure is a bit obvious, and ageability may be limited.",Backus,95,200.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Joseph Phelps
1113,US,"This is not a wine for tonight, or next year, or for at least the next six years. It's shut down in tannins, with an astringency that can't be overcome even with decanting, although that won't stop people from opening it before its time. Buried beneath the tannins are well-developed black currant, roasted meat and cedar flavors that define upscale Napa Cab. Really fine and distinguished, a wine to cellar and enjoy for many years.",Insignia,95,200.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Red Blend,Joseph Phelps
1114,US,"Tasted in October, 2007, the wine was mute, offering little aromatically except for teasing notes of blackberries and oak. That shyness extended to the taste, where strong, hard tannins provide an almost impenetrable coat of armor to what's inside. But right down the middle of the palate is a deep, intensely powerful stream of perfectly ripened cassis that's all the proof you need of ageability. This is a magnificently structured young wine, reminiscent of a fine young Pauillac. Best after 2012, and should have another decade after that, at least.",Insignia,97,200.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Joseph Phelps
1115,US,"Solidly in the Hillside Select model, this vigorous young Cab is dramatically ripe and powerful. The flavors of red and black currants, milk chocolate, figs and smoky vanilla erupt in the mouth, making the tastebuds jump with joy. However, there is also the structure, among the greatest in California Cabs. The acidity is fine, but the tannins are stupendously rich, sweet and complex, practically a food group in themselves. Stunning and gorgeous now in its youth, this collectible wine will reward at least through 2015.",Hillside Select,96,200.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Shafer
1116,US,"It's impossible for a Cabernet to be richer, more opulent or more hedonistically stunning on opening than this beauty from veteran Phelps. Admittedly, there are significant tannins. But the wine delivers a broadside of the sweetest, ripest cassis fruit imaginable, along with richly toasted oak. It's the kind of Cab that will dazzle even an amateur. Absolutely gorgeous now, with immaculate elegance. About the only criticism you can offer is that the structure is a bit obvious, and ageability may be limited.",Backus,95,200.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Joseph Phelps
1117,US,"Brilliant aromatics here, just stupendously attractive. Among the sweetest and most approachable of Harlan's current stable, it's also complex and ageworthy. Fairly tannic now, with a refined sandpapery grittiness coating pure flavors of ripe cherries, plums and blackberries and their associated liqueurs. The finish is so long, balanced and harmonious. It's hard to imagine that this won't be one to age 12–15 years.",St. Eden,96,210.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,BOND
1118,US,"From Oakville, a wine quite different from Bond's Melbury. Not as immediately lush and flamboyant, it's a trace more reserved. Darker, too, more tannic and closed. Starts with an earthiness. Airing brings out cherries and cassis. There is great balance and integrity here, even though it is in desperate need of cellaring. Drink 2009.",St. Eden,95,210.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1119,US,"Has stunning fruit, for starters. Sheer, pure, concentrated nose of cassis and cherry. Subtle oak in the background, lending vanilla, toast and caramel nuances. Fabulous texture and weight, fine as velvet. Magnificently lush, full-bodied. Fantastic finish. Drink now through 2015.",Melbury,95,210.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1120,US,"Very fine wine. Denser, richer, more powerful than the other Bond '01s. In the mouth, it has a molten quality, like liquid lead or mercury; strong flavors of plums, bitter chocolate, cassis, and good, rich oak. Pretty astringent now in tannins, it's firm and hard, but complex and layered. Drink now, but best beyond 2010.",Vecina,96,210.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1121,US,"A perfect score has to be considered in the context of its region. Shafer's 2004 Hillside Select is tremendous as a Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon that competes with its peers at the highest levels. It's always a fabulous wine, but in warm 2004, Shafer's amphitheater vineyard sheltered the grapes, ripening them to perfection yet protecting the “iron fist in a velvet glove” structure that André Tchelistcheff defined as Stags Leap. This 100% Cabernet is tremendous in cassis, black currant and mocha flavors, and the 100% new French oak provides perfect additions of smoke and caramel. It's soft and gorgeous enough to drink now, and should age well in a cool cellar for the next 20 years.",Hillside Select,100,215.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Shafer
1122,US,"More structured than the Melbury, with deeper, firmer tannins: but it's certainly not a tannic, hard wine. It's the quality of the tannins, fine, ripely sweet, intricate. The flavors are enormously rich in blue and black berries, as well as chocolate. Magnificent wine, fleshy, fat, opulent. As delicious as it is now, should age well through 2020.",St. Eden,96,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1123,US,"This is a very high-class Cabernet. You can tell from the sumptuous tannins and the overall balance and elegance. It's soft and gentle enough to drink now, with voluptuous waves of blackberries, black currants, anise, chocolate and cedar, yet shows a density that suggests midterm ageability through 2015 or so.",H.B. Vineyard,95,225.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Peju
1124,US,"A Bordeaux blend based on Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, the grapes for this stunning wine came from David Abreu's vineyard in the St. Helena foothills. It's very complex, softer, more open and approachable than Colgin's 100% Cabs, with a flamboyant spectrum of cherries,  framboise, cocoa, violets, gingerbread and spices framed in supple, fine tannins. Beautiful, a feminine wine of great beauty. Drink now through 2015.",Cariad,95,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Colgin
1125,US,"More structured than the Melbury, with deeper, firmer tannins: but it's certainly not a tannic, hard wine. It's the quality of the tannins, fine, ripely sweet, intricate. The flavors are enormously rich in blue and black berries, as well as chocolate. Magnificent wine, fleshy, fat, opulent. As delicious as it is now, should age well through 2020.",St. Eden,96,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1126,US,"Enormously rich, like biting into a warm chocolate truffle with a cherry-blackberry core. Ultrasmooth, a bit soft and melted, but oh, so supple and velvety, with fine, firm tannins. Completely dry and balanced, this is a wine of harmonious complexity.",Melbury,95,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1127,US,"Based on Oakville fruit, Vecina is not quite as fruit-driven as the other two Bond wines. It's a bit backward, with an earthy, mushroomy, soy and balsamic taste alongside the briary berry flavors. Has an almost feral quality that is quite interesting and different. With its big backsplash of tannins, it might age best of the current trio. Drink now–2020.",Vecina,95,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1128,US,"This is a very high-class Cabernet. You can tell from the sumptuous tannins and the overall balance and elegance. It's soft and gentle enough to drink now, with voluptuous waves of blackberries, black currants, anise, chocolate and cedar, yet shows a density that suggests midterm ageability through 2015 or so.",H.B. Vineyard,95,225.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Peju
1129,US,"Enormously rich, like biting into a warm chocolate truffle with a cherry-blackberry core. Ultrasmooth, a bit soft and melted, but oh, so supple and velvety, with fine, firm tannins. Completely dry and balanced, this is a wine of harmonious complexity.",Melbury,95,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1130,US,"Price be damned, this is an authentically gorgeous, important Cabernet Sauvignon. It calls to mind the amazing 2001, with its huge, perfect tannins and acids and artistic appliqué of new oak. But the star of the show surely is the fruit. Mounds of ripe blackberries and cherries pile up, veering into currants and cassis and something wild and decadently animal, like charred meat. Fabulous now despite the firm tannins, and should evolve for many years.",Backus,97,225.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Joseph Phelps
1131,US,"Almost black in color. Flavors are of blackberry, cassis, Provençal herbs; the 100% new oak adds rich toast and char notes. Tannins are brilliant, dense and fluffy. Grown at the base of Howell Mountain, this is classic mountain Cab, beautiful now, fleshy and fat, but with a 20-year lifespan.",Herb Lamb Vineyard,95,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Colgin
1132,US,"A Bordeaux blend based on Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, the grapes for this stunning wine came from David Abreu's vineyard in the St. Helena foothills. It's very complex, softer, more open and approachable than Colgin's 100% Cabs, with a flamboyant spectrum of cherries,  framboise, cocoa, violets, gingerbread and spices framed in supple, fine tannins. Beautiful, a feminine wine of great beauty. Drink now through 2015.",Cariad,95,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Colgin
1133,US,"In keeping with the voluptuous approachability of the 2007 vintage, this 100% Cabernet Sauvignon is simply fabulous now for its flood of the ripest, sweetest blackberrries, cherries, cassis and chocolate imaginable. Especially noble is the tannin structure, firm and soft, dry and sweet, a combination of opposites. The depth is vast, and the spicy finish goes on for a long time, suggesting the wine's concentration. Simply a joy to drink, it should develop over many years, but you might want to err on the side of youthfulness and open it by 2015.",Hillside Select,97,225.0,California,Stags Leap District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Shafer
1134,US,"This is a very high-class Cabernet. You can tell from the sumptuous tannins and the overall balance and elegance. It's soft and gentle enough to drink now, with voluptuous waves of blackberries, black currants, anise, chocolate and cedar, yet shows a density that suggests midterm ageability through 2015 or so.",H.B. Vineyard,95,225.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Peju
1135,US,"Based on Oakville fruit, Vecina is not quite as fruit-driven as the other two Bond wines. It's a bit backward, with an earthy, mushroomy, soy and balsamic taste alongside the briary berry flavors. Has an almost feral quality that is quite interesting and different. With its big backsplash of tannins, it might age best of the current trio. Drink now–2020.",Vecina,95,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Blend,BOND
1136,US,"Almost black in color. Flavors are of blackberry, cassis, Provençal herbs; the 100% new oak adds rich toast and char notes. Tannins are brilliant, dense and fluffy. Grown at the base of Howell Mountain, this is classic mountain Cab, beautiful now, fleshy and fat, but with a 20-year lifespan.",Herb Lamb Vineyard,95,225.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Colgin
1137,US,"This tremendous 100% varietal wine hails from Oakville and was aged over three years in oak. Juicy red-cherry fruit and a compelling hint of caramel greet the palate, framed by elegant, fine tannins and a subtle minty tone in the background. Balanced and rewarding from start to finish, it has years ahead of it to develop further nuance. Enjoy 2022–2030.",Martha's Vineyard,96,235.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Heitz
1138,US,"Impossibly aromatic. Hard to imagine greater claret perfume. Shows the most refined mingling of smoky oak, cassis, cherries, roasted coconut macaroon, cocoa puff and spice scents. Absolutely first rate, as good as anything Napa Valley produces. Compellingly, addictively delicious, but so dry and voluptuous. Classic wine, with perfect alignment of fruit, acids, tannins, oak, alcohol, the works. The grapes are from Sloan's portion of the Sacrashe Vineyard, high above the Silverado Trail in the Vaca Mountains. Mostly Cabernet Sauvignon, aged in 100% new French oak. Perfection in a bottle. Drink now–2020.",Red Wine,100,245.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Blend,Sloan
1139,US,"Impossibly aromatic. Hard to imagine greater claret perfume. Shows the most refined mingling of smoky oak, cassis, cherries, roasted coconut macaroon, cocoa puff and spice scents. Absolutely first rate, as good as anything Napa Valley produces. Compellingly, addictively delicious, but so dry and voluptuous. Classic wine, with perfect alignment of fruit, acids, tannins, oak, alcohol, the works. The grapes are from Sloan's portion of the Sacrashe Vineyard, high above the Silverado Trail in the Vaca Mountains. Mostly Cabernet Sauvignon, aged in 100% new French oak. Perfection in a bottle. Drink now–2020.",Red Wine,100,245.0,California,Rutherford,Napa,Cabernet Blend,Sloan
1140,US,"Shows the Bacchus profile of ripe blackberry and cassis fruit, pure, strong tannins and exceptional balance. It's a dry, classically structured Cabernet of enormous complexity and interest. So delicious now, it's tempting to drink, but it's way too young. This is a wine to cellar, and it should blossom over the next 20 years.",Backus Vineyard,95,250.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Joseph Phelps
1141,US,"Shows the Bacchus profile of ripe blackberry and cassis fruit, pure, strong tannins and exceptional balance. It's a dry, classically structured Cabernet of enormous complexity and interest. So delicious now, it's tempting to drink, but it's way too young. This is a wine to cellar, and it should blossom over the next 20 years.",Backus Vineyard,95,250.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Joseph Phelps
1142,US,"Shows the Bacchus profile of ripe blackberry and cassis fruit, pure, strong tannins and exceptional balance. It's a dry, classically structured Cabernet of enormous complexity and interest. So delicious now, it's tempting to drink, but it's way too young. This is a wine to cellar, and it should blossom over the next 20 years.",Backus Vineyard,95,250.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Joseph Phelps
1143,US,"Lots of fresh herbs and spices in this beautiful red wine. Offers loads of red and black currants and chocolate, with a fine application of cedar and cigar box from oak. Very fine, enormously likeable. Drink now through 2015.",Melbury,95,275.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,BOND
1144,US,"Very refined, with lovely perfume. Heady, showing currants, cassis, cedar, chocolate-covered cherries and sweet herbs. Decadent, classy, elegant, with a great tannin structure. Just oozes class.",Vecina,97,275.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,BOND
1145,US,"This is an absolutely beautiful wine to drink now, but the richness comes at the price of considerable alcohol. The color is dark and impenetrable, the aromas huge in Cabernet-inspired blackberries and black currants, with a touch of something herbal and also a stony minerality. There's also a fascinating peatiness, like an Islay Scotch. It really opens up in the glass, becoming ever more complex. It's great Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon, but that high alcohol may limit its ageability.",IX Estate,99,290.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Red Blend,Colgin
1146,US,"Massive essence of Cabernet Sauvignon, a triumph. Shows huge waves of blackberries, black currants and cassis, dark chocolate, earthy minerals and considerable oak, which is tasteful and unobtrusive, With its dryness and perfect balance, it will easily negotiate the years. Should be fine well past the year 2020.",La Joie,98,300.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Verité
1147,US,"Extremely tannic at the age of five years, and that astringency accentuates the dryness, making the wine austere and distant. It has a dense, complex core of blackberries, coated with immaculately fine, sweet oak. Feels important and dramatic, but too young. Begs to be housed in a good cellar for a good eight years.",Le Desir,95,300.0,California,Sonoma County,Sonoma,Bordeaux-style Red Blend,Verité
1148,US,"Deserves its high score by virtue of power and sheer flamboyant dazzle. Packed with ripe, sweet cherries and milk chocolate, with a decadently meaty taste, like beef tartare. Oak plays the usual role, adding a caramelly, buttered toast richness. The tannins are brilliant, so soft and sweet, they're like candy. Drink this flashy wine over the next six years.",Ark Vineyard,95,300.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hundred Acre
1149,US,"This blockbuster, powerhouse of a wine suggests blueberry pie and chocolate as it opens in the glass. On the palate, it's smooth and seductively silky, offering complex cedar, peppercorn and peppery oak seasonings amidst its dense richness. It finishes with finesse and spice.",Rainin Vineyard,95,325.0,California,Diamond Mountain District,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Hall
1150,US,"Ripe and flashy, offering tiers of cassis, chocolate and charry new oak flavors, wrapped in sweet, smooth tannins. Has an acidic bite midpalate that balances the lushness, and will add to the wine's cellar-worthiness. Defines sheer power, but never loses control. Best now and through 2017, at least.",Red Wine,96,500.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Blend,Screaming Eagle
1151,US,"Ripe and flashy, offering tiers of cassis, chocolate and charry new oak flavors, wrapped in sweet, smooth tannins. Has an acidic bite midpalate that balances the lushness, and will add to the wine's cellar-worthiness. Defines sheer power, but never loses control. Best now and through 2017, at least.",Red Wine,96,500.0,California,Oakville,Napa,Cabernet Blend,Screaming Eagle
1152,US,"The former basketball star's initial release immediately establishes itself among the elite Cabernets of Napa Valley. Made from mountain vineyards on Atlas Peak and benches in the Rutherford appellation, it combines intensity with elegance. Bursts with upfront, delicious blackberry, crème de cassis and dark chocolate flavors that are wildly sweet on the midpalate, but then finish thoroughly dry. Structure comes by way of a tangy minerality and finely laced tannins. This is one of those wines that is softly decadent from start to finish, although it's probably not one to hold much beyond six years.",Family Reserve,97,625.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Yao Ming
1153,US,"The former basketball star's initial release immediately establishes itself among the elite Cabernets of Napa Valley. Made from mountain vineyards on Atlas Peak and benches in the Rutherford appellation, it combines intensity with elegance. Bursts with upfront, delicious blackberry, crème de cassis and dark chocolate flavors that are wildly sweet on the midpalate, but then finish thoroughly dry. Structure comes by way of a tangy minerality and finely laced tannins. This is one of those wines that is softly decadent from start to finish, although it's probably not one to hold much beyond six years.",Family Reserve,97,625.0,California,Napa Valley,Napa,Cabernet Sauvignon,Yao Ming
